The History of Palestine
A Study By
Fawzy Al-Ghadiry
 
Table of Content
Preface	3
History of the Arabic Region	13
Controlling The Arabic Region And The Emergence of Colonies	15
Palestine and the Historical Truth	16
Prehistoric Palestine	16
The Ancient Stone Age	16
8000 – 17000B.C.: Shifting from Gathering to Production	17
4000 – 8000B.C.: appearance of agricultural communities	17
2000 – 4000B.C.: The Closing of the Fourth millennium before Christianity	17
Semites	17
Canaanites	18
2000B.C. – 1200 B.C	18
550 – 1200B.C.: Era of Kingdoms (Iron Age)	19
Israeli People	19
The Persian Empire	20
550B.C. – 330 B.C.: the Persian Empire and the Era of Alexander the Great	20
330B.C. – 63 B.C	21
The Roman Empire	21
63B.C. – 636 A.D	21
The Rise of Christianity	22
The Islamic Arabic Conquest	22
Palestine During the Era of the Rightly-Guided Caliphs	23
The Era of the Umayyad Caliphs	23
The Era of the Abbasid Caliphate	24
The Tulunid State	24
The Ikhshidid Rule	24
The Fatimids	25
The Seljuk State	25
Europeans	25
The Second Crusades (1146-1149 A.D.)	26
The Ayyubid Dynasty.	27
Third Crusade	27
Mamluks	28
The Ottoman Era	28
Napoleon Bonaparte expedition (1798 – 1801)	29
Muhammad Ali’s Campaign	30
The Zionist Settlement in Palestine	31
British Mandate	32
The pre-British Mandate period	32
The British Mandate in Palestine: 1923-1948	32
Sheikh Eiz Al-Din Al-Qasam Revolution	34
The Great 1936 Revolution and the Division Project	35
The Division Project	36
The Division Resolution:	38
Jewish emigration to Palestine	43
Immigration after the Creation of Israel 1948-1967:	49
Expulsion of the Palestinians from their Homes	54
The Most Important International Resolutions Concerning Palestine	60
 
Preface

The fifteenth of May 2006 marked the fifty eighth anniversary of the catastrophe, which has brought about the worst calamity that could befall a nation in the whole history, namely the tragedy of the Palestinian people. Fifty years, during which Israel has implemented its plots and schemes to force itself as a reality in the region, where it worked on embedding its institutions on the Arabic lands and building settlements for the Jewish immigrants there. To achieve this, it has usurped the Arabic lands, forcing out the Palestinians from their home and uprooting them from their own lands.

Despite all this the Palestinian preserved his entity and instilled patriotism deep in his sons’ hearts, passing on the flag of the nation from the elder, whom the enemies wanted him to perish, to the youngster, whom they wanted him to sink into oblivion. Such flag together with devotion and love to one’s homeland remained alive, purified and kneaded with the martyrs’ blood. This Palestinian will always stand firm before all the sufferings, pains, massacres, conspiracies, he will always come out stronger, because he is the Palestinian.

This study of the History of Palestine stresses on the right of every human being to return back to his homeland, and to stress that the right of return and ownership of lands and homes is an eternal, individual and collective right that no occupation, state, treaty, agreement can gainsay, as every occupation no matter how long it lasts, and no matter how strong it is, is doomed to extinction.

The study tackles the history of Palestine since the dawn of history till our contemporary time, it is a part of a large book entitled “Connecting Voices”, written by a young Tunisian author and writer called Fawzy Al-Ghadiry. The goal of the book is to identify the religion of Islam in a simple and easy to understand way, also and more important acquaint the reader with many facts about the Middle East, such facts that reach them distorted and twisted, due to Zionist meddling that alters and forges incidents.

The aim of this book is to inform the westerns of the truth about what is happening in the Middle East. In addition to conveying the point of view of the Arab and Muslims to them, directly and without the interception of the scissors of the Zionist censor. On that basis, the book is divided into 11 chapters, each of which tackles the most important issues that the American and all the westerns should know. But this great and crucial book is faced with a financing problem and in need of all the support to help publishing it as soon as possible. Thorough information about the book is available at the following site (http://ourvoice.jeeran.com), those desiring to contribute to the book can contact the
author at amour2vie@yahoo.fr or borkan79@yahoo.fr
 
It is very important and essential for the occidental native and especially the American one to learn about some facts that he might have never come across before . Facts about the history of the Middle East, which is the epicenter of tension in the world. For undoubtedly the conflict in Palestine is the reason behind many problems around the world, starting from what has come to be known as terrorism, to the deepened hostility towards America, and the tension of relationships among countries, all this threatens of a flare-up in these relationships that no one can predict its repercussions. Thus it is rendered a necessity for the American citizen to know why such conflict in the Middle East originated between what is known as Israel on one part and the rest of the Arabic world, on top of which is Palestine on the other part. One can never know full well the reasons behind such conflict, unless by delving deep into the history of the region, in order to unveil the truth of the real proprietor of this land, are they the Jews, who believe to be God’s chosen nation, and that He has promised it to them, or they are rather the Palestinians after whom the land is named? Let us first shed light on the information, which the Americans hold concerning the history of Palestine, through studying their stances, then we will probe into the history of the region for thousands of years back till our contemporary time.

Let us first have a look on the opinion of the first witness, who is an American lady, 50 years old, called Clara:

" Same as I understand about Islam: secular history but dating back to the 1890's unlike a lot of my American contemporaries which don't go further back than the U.N. creation of Israel. I'm aware, for instance, of the Balfour Declaration and Theodor Herzl's "Judenstadt" article and all the implications that went with those. "

As for the second witness, who is an electric engineer, whom I gave him a nickname George, he said:

“I know that out of WWII the UN basically declared the area of present day Israel to become a new state for the Israelis all over the world displaced by the holocaust. The genocide committed on the Israelis helped fuel political support for this and was done without proper regard for who already lived there, the Palestinians. I know this created problems but Israel made it much worse in 1969 (I believe) with the 6 Day War (or was that the conflict with Egypt) by expanding their territory beyond what the US mandated. I believe that the UN's initial action was possibly not legal and that the expansionist attitude of Israel, while effective in improving their security with regards to Egypt, was also an attempt to gain more land for themselves. I have been taught all my life by my father that creating the state of Israel was probably a mistake. "

As for the third witness “Kazy Experimental” he said:

That depends on what you consider the truth. There are revisionist historians that claim their views as fact. I understand that Palestine has never officially been a sovereign nation. They are the remnants of the Ottoman Empire. I understand that the British had a hand in the creation of Israel in that they occupied in what is now the nation of Israel. I understand that there is violence on both sides of the conflict, neither side more justified than the other. Since the U.S. backed the creation of Israel, and is an ally, we have the responsibility to ensure that they survive. I feel that the conflict can be solved with diplomacy if Yassir and the Israeli parliament are replaced with people willing to negotiate fairly. One of the obstacles I see for Israel is that there are so many groups to negotiate with, each having their own demands. If an agreement is made with one organization there is no protection from the others".
 
The answer of the fourth witness Peter was as follows:

“Being a Jew and going to a largely Jewish school, what I have learned from school is heavily slanted. But what I do know is that both the Jews and the Palestinians were promised the land by the British and when the British went to hand over the area it was split between the Jews and the Palestinians. The Israelis then in I believe it was the Six day war took over the area that was biblical Israel".

As for the fifth witness “James”, he said:

“As for the Arab-Israeli wars, I know the Arabs started each fight and the Israeli army won each time. I know that any occupied territory the Israeli government holds was originally occupied when they won an earlier war started by the Arabs".

The sixth witness “Jacob” - a Canadian youth - sees the following:

“ "According to the Bible the Philistines were first in the area known a Palestine and then the Israelites took it over from the "pagans".

As for Lisly, her answer on the question of what you know about the history of Palestine, is formed of one word that is more sufficient than tens of pages, as she said:
“Nothing”


Let us now move on to commenting on the stances of those youngsters, who have expressed their views with ultimate freedom, and let us tackle the first witness, who was Mrs. Clara, as she says that she knows about the Palestinian history more than most of the rest of the Americans, who suffice to know the events that occurred since the United Nations was established, while her knowledge goes back to the year 1890. Concerning such point I would like to point out that Mrs. Clara has admitted the Americans’ ignorance of the history of the Arabic region, for most of the Americans are ignorant of the events that took place prior to the establishment of Israel, as if this place had no history before this period, or that there was no inhabitant in this land before the establishment of Israel on it. Even Mrs. Clara herself, her knowledge about this territory is considered limited, as Palestine contains the oldest city that was ever erected on earth, which is “Ariha” that was built more than 7000 years ago. What draws our attention is that for most of the Americans, the start of Palestine history is marked by the Israeli presence!! Actually this reflects how far the Israeli version of events affects the American nation. For Israelis do not want the world to look back at the history of the Middle East prior to the establishment of their entity, they want them to suffice by looking into the historical period that extends since the proclamation of their state till the present time, and they have succeeded in doing so.

The history of Palestine extends thousands of years ago, and not just since the establishment of the United Nation or since the year 1890, this chapter is designated to unveil this obscured history. Mrs. Clara has pointed out to Balfour Declaration, by virtue of which Britain had granted Palestine to the Jews, so that they would proclaim their state over it, we will expatiate on this declaration, in order for the Americans and the whole world to know how the Arab-Israel conflict has erupted in the Middle East, and how the British occupation had lavished the land of Palestine upon the Jews in a cold blooded way, and without the least consideration to the real owners of the land.
 
Moving on to the second witness, who was Mr. George, we notice that he has shown considerable background of the Middle East, he has started his answer by the word “I know”, and he seemed sure of his knowledge, for it is true that the handing over of Palestine to the Jews occurred after the chaos of World War I, and Jewish emigration to Palestine had witnessed a gradual increase ever since that date. George said that he knew that the Jews had been scattered and dispersed all around the world, and they had no unified nationality, which is true, as the Jews were really scattered all over the world, then they migrated to Palestine to found their nation, where they had given some of the parts of the Palestinian territories that they occupied, and gave it the name of Israel. Moreover George admits through his knowledge that the Palestinians are the ones who inhabited the land first, considering that the Jews were scattered people, and that Palestine is an Arabic territory inhabited by the Palestinians.

Then he pursues by pointing out that the causes of the problems that erupt in the region are due to the Jewish presence in the Arabic territory, and the establishment of Israel at the expense of the original proprietors of the land, moreover Israel has intensified the gravity of the problems after the six days war, when it usurped more Arabic lands and occupied them. Worth mentioning here that George was not precise in defining the date of the breaking out of this war, which was on the year 1967, rather than 1969 as he mentioned. Regardless of this, the stance of George constitutes a correct one, despite the fact that he did not go into any details. For truly the Israeli presence in the region was the outset to all crisis and hardships, which the Middle East suffers from till that very day, and such problems will not halt, unless Palestine returns back to its state before Balfour Declaration, meaning the retrieval of land to its proprietors, and the return of Jews to where they had come. In addition he said that the Israeli occupation of the Arabic territories, is what made it seek to guarantee its security, which is true, for how come Israel takes over the lands of the surrounding Arabic countries, then craves to live peacefully among them, without their attempting to retrieve the lands they occupied. Then the American citizen wound up his answer, by mentioning the opinion of his father who told him that creating the state of Israel was probably a mistake. Such stance that complies with that of thousands of Muslims and Non-Muslims around the world, is in fact shows the awareness of George’s father, undoubtedly the origin of his awareness is owing to his witnessing the establishment of the Zionist entity, and saw how the Palestinians were forced to evacuate their lands for the sake of the immigrants who came from every inch around the world. Such usurpation no Arab can accept, thereto the Arabs are seeking to retrieve what had been robbed from them, this means the absence of peace and security, which many in the Arabic and Islamic world deem that it will never be settled down, unless Israeli presence terminates.

As for the third witness, who was Kazy Experimental, he started by casting doubt on what the truth might really be, particularly with the presence of corrupt historians, who falsify facts. Actually such suspicion can pave the way to know the truth, as he does not entertain any particular opinion, but at the same time it still is a passive stance, as he does not move from the phase of suspicion, and does not try to inquire into details to know the truth. Truly there are people who seek to obliterate facts, and pervert them, whom we will point out to in this book. But Kazy and whomever shares the same opinion should know that truth can be easily twisted to the one who does not know, but the one who knows all the details that return back to hundreds, or rather thousands of years ago can never be fooled by a falsified or distorted truth. As mostly the American nation knows nothing about the history of the region save the history of the establishment of
 
Israel, hence this renders the American citizen liable to being deceived about such a matter, and falling an easy prey to the forging historians. On the other hand, the Arabic nation, which has been living in the Middle East region and in Palestine for thousands of years can never be beguiled, because it knows the whole truth with every single minute detail, for it lives this truth.

Kazy says that he knows that Palestine has witnessed no stability all along history, and that it is the birthplace of the Ottomans. Actually, such information is not absolutely true. Firstly, it is true that Palestine had gone through many wars, but on the other hand, it had lived periods of peace and prosperity, as we should not only concentrate on the negative aspect, even if it was prevalent. Secondly, Palestine is not the place of origin of the Ottomans, as its history goes back to thousands of years before their appearance on the scene of events. Moreover, Palestine had been governed by many countries, which we will indicate later in this chapter.


In addition, Kazy admits his knowledge that Britain had occupied the Palestinian territories, and that it handed it over to the Jews to found their state on it! Is not this enough for the Americans to know that the Palestinians have the right to defend their land and restore it back, after Britain had presented it to the Jews, by virtue of Balfour Declaration, which did not consider any patriotic feelings of the owners of the land, and marginalized them, turning a blind eye to their right to decide their fate?

What calls for wonder is that after such admission, he claims that violence in Palestine is considered unjust on both sides, how can that be, while there is an occupying usurper, and one whose land is occupied and taken over? Is it not the right of the latter to defend his land and restore it back? Or his right has become even with the one who assails him, robs his land, demolishes his house, and kills his family? The Americans should pay heed that the owners of the land are entitled to endeavor to retrieve their land, and that any occupier to it is an aggressor.

May be the stance of Kazy Experimental is an astonishing one, because it digresses from logic, or one should rather depict it as unjust, for he has admitted the role of America in establishing Israel. Moreover, he deems it the duty of the Americans to work on the continuity of such entity, though it is an occupying entity, which usurped Arab’s lands!! Would that be called justice! If this attitude reached the Arabic and Islamic world, it would lead to a truly hostility conflict, as the Muslims would deem it racism, injustice, and defiance to their patriotic feelings. Thereto I beseech every American, who possesses a free will to think neutrally, and with no biasness, and to answer with ultimate candor the following question; is it just that a great country should seek to support the occupation of strange people to the land of the Palestinians, to expel them out of it, demolish their houses, kill their children. Then they brand them as terrorists, when they defend their lands? Is it just that America should spare nothing to guarantee the security of the Jews, and their presence on a land that it is not theirs, to which they had emigrated from different parts of the world, thus throwing out its true inhabitants? Can that be justice? All the Americans should know that both the Arab Muslims and Christians agree on one truth, namely that Israel is an occupying entity, and that the Arabs have the right to fight such entity, thus any aggression from it, can never be claimed as its right, and no foreign power has the right to support it. Therefore, that accounts for the clashes between the Arabs and Muslims attitude on one side and that of America, which regards it necessary for this entity to remain implanted in the Arab land.
 
Kazy continues to say that disagreement in the Middle East between the Palestinians and Arabs on one side and Israel on the other, can be solved diplomatically, provided that the Palestinian authority and the Israeli one be replaced with ones more serious and resolute. He even talked about negotiating justly! It is necessary here to make clear to the Americans some points; First that the Arabs regard the Jews as robbers of their lands, how come then that they negotiate with a thief? Try to imagine with me – my dear reader- that a person stole your car, then after fighting with him, the thief tells you “let us negotiate justly to end this fight that drained our strength, and which has caused a state of antagonism between us”. Consequently, the thief presents the appearance of the peaceful and honest man before others, who strives for negotiation and peace with you, without including the restoration of the car among the terms of negotiation.

In other word, he is no more than a coward man, who wants to negotiate with you, to end confrontation with you out of fear of what might occur to him, but at the same time he has no intention of returning the car to you, thus he assumes the guise of a harmless man who wants peace, but when you talk about your car, he tells you “what about me, don’t I have the right to possess a car?” That is exactly what the Jews do, they say “what about us”? don’t we have the right to possess a land to establish our state over it?” And they had chosen the land of the Palestinians. What kind of justice that Kazy is talking about? For the Palestinians and the Arabs regard that there is no place for just negotiations with the Israelis, except if it contained the term of the return of the Jews to where they had come from, and the return of all the robbed lands to the Palestinians.


That is for the first point, as for the second one, it is represented in the means of putting an end to disagreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians, concerning this the Americans – and the whole world – should realize that disagreement will never be settled just by means of negotiations, but rather by restoring the lands back to its owners, and the return of the Jews to where they had come from, and that constitutes the conviction of all the Arabs and Muslims. But it seems that the media and western politicians convey something different, in order to convince the westerns that the solution is represented in negotiating, without touching upon the choice of restoring the land to its owners, then they depict whomever rejects such solution as an obstacle on the way of peace. Exactly, as in the case of the stolen car, where a third part intervenes between the robber and the robbed, telling them they should negotiate for the sake of stopping fighting, and that the only solution is to stop fighting and not to return to it, thus the one who turn down such solution is considered unjust and an obstacle on the way of peace. Such solution suits only the robber, as he would get rid of the demands and threats of the robbed man. But as for the robbed man, if he agreed on such unjust negotiations, which suffices by putting an end to fighting, he would kiss good-bye to his rights, and would not dare to demand the car once again. Hence the Americans should realize such sensitive point. Moreover the American and western media have gone too far in branding the Palestinian side as unjust, and that it seeks no peace because it refuses such unfair negotiations that make them stop claiming their rights.

Then Kazy move on to defend the Israeli attitude, by saying that the deadlock of the peace process is owing to the presence of too many Palestinians bodies, regarding this the Americans should realize that the Israeli in the eyes of the Palestinians factions, and all the Arabs and Muslims are no more than occupiers, who have no right to claim in these lands. Consequently, no one should defend their stance, because no matter how
 
just it can be to the view of others, it is unfair to the people of the region, for in the end they are occupiers and robbers. That from one point, on the other hands the different Palestinians factions see that they have the right to obtain just peace, according to which all their rights are retrieved. Furthermore, the Palestinian authority is the official representative of the Palestinian nation, and it is the only negotiating body. As Israel does not negotiate with Hamas or Al-Aqsa Martyrs Regiments, for such organizations regard that they have the right to get reassured that the negotiations are fair, considering that they represent thousands of Palestinians, we have said before that any negotiations that do not bring back the rights of Palestinians to them are deemed unfair, and they will not abide by them, and such is the attitude of these liberating movements.

Let us move now to the opinion of the forth witness “Peter”, the Jewish American youth, who admitted plainly that the fact that he went to a Jewish school – as he is a Jew
– made him learn things that are totally unfair, which is an expected thing. As the Jewish leverage around the world seeks to describe the Palestinians with the ugliest descriptions, thus stirring the Jews hatred, and instigating them to annihilate them, and consequently they travel to Israel to fight them. Undoubtedly, Jewish schools around the world will seek to distort the historical facts to make of the Jews owners of the land, and delude them into believing that Palestine was an empty land not inhabited, and that they are God’s chosen nation! And this serves as an answer to Kazy, who said that there were forgers of history, which is true, but it should be added that the forgers are not on the Arabic side, who knows the history of his land by heart, but rather forging and twisting occurs from the Jews, who are new to the land, and who want to employ history by all means to convince the coming generations in the world that they are rooted in this land since old history.

Peter says that he knows that Britain had promised both the Palestinians and the Jews to give them this land (Palestine), which is a grave mistake and a distorted information, which we will point to later in the chapter. But peter and anyone else should know that Britain had promised only the Jews to give them this land, according to the famous Balfour Declaration, which had presented the Arabic Palestinian land to the Jews. As for the Palestinians, they had inhabited the land for five thousands years, but they wanted to get rid of the Ottoman rule, which sank into corruption in its last days, thus Britain promised to liberate them from the Ottoman Empire that had sided with Germany against Britain, provided that they fight with them, but Britain did not keep its promise and betrayed the Palestinians who fought on their front line, and repaid them by offering their lands to the Jews, who are foreigners to the regions.
Then Peter says that Britain had distributed the land on the Jews and the Palestinians, as if it was a piece of candy, but even this did not happen, as Britain had given the land of Palestinians to the Jews, that land that was thoroughly owned by the Palestinians, but it took it over and offered it to the Jews, and recognized their state, and did not recognize the Palestinian state.

Then Peter continues to say that the Israelis had occupied, during the six days war, the Jewish sacred lands!! I truly do not know what Jewish sacred lands he is talking about, for there were no such sacred lands in Palestine, as the Prophet Moses (may Allah be pleased with him) did not even enter Palestine, and he died before entering it. It seems that he was influenced by the information he acquired at the Jewish school, which he said at the start of his answer that it was unfair. But if he meant the Islamic Al-Buraq wall, which is under Jewish occupation now, and which they named “Wailing Wall” this chapter contains the proof that the United Nations had affirmed repeatedly that Al-Buraq wall is
 
an Islamic landmark, and had nothing to do with Jewish sanctities. In addition, the United Nations had performed prolonged studies about such matter, and had reached the conclusion that Al-Buraq wall is an Islamic landmark. Nevertheless, the Jews had occupied it by force during that period. Now the world had ignored the reports of the United Nations, and accepted such clear as daylight robbery despite the outraged Muslims.

Coming to the fifth witness, who was “James”, he says that Arabs were always the first to start war, but the victorious were always the Israelis, what a distorted image!! It seems that such view is the outcome of Israeli media, which has a deep and branching leverage in America, such Israeli media works on imbuing the notion of the invincible legendary Israeli army. We all have seen on the TV screens how an armed Israeli soldier was running from a twelve years old child hurling stones at him, which has shocked Israel when it was published, and it expressed its reserve concerning the publication of such photo on a wide scale in such a way that made of the Israeli army an object of laughter and mockery. On the opposite side, the impact of the Israeli propaganda can be seen in the attitude adopted by James, who branded the Arabs as cowards, aggressors, evil, and such sort of offensive descriptions, which Hollywood had instilled in the minds. For James thinks that Arabs are always the ones to wage a war, but the legendary Israeli troop always achieve victory, which is a farfetched truth.

Above all, James and all the westerns should know that the Jews were the ones who started to incur enmity, we will illustrate the features of such enmity in chapter four, where the terrorist organizations had ravaged Palestine and laid it waste, they had committed mass massacres against the Palestinians in order to spread fear among them, and to force them into leaving their villages and their property behind to the new comers. It was genocide committed against the Palestinians. Thus the Arab troops had to interfere to protect the Palestinians, under total worldly apathy, as if it was a conspiracy. It appears that James only remembers that the Arabs lost the six day war, but he consigned to oblivion the fact that the Arab troops in the year 1973 was about to terminate the Jewish existence in Palestine if it was not for the United States intervention, and its imposing a period of truce, during which it had opened an airlift to reinforce the Israelis with weapons and equipments, not only that, but it furnished them with experts, highly developed equipments, and top confidential and crucial information which rendered their victory a fait-accompli. Thus America had breached the truce that it imposed on the Arabs, then it tipped over the balances of power. But James recalls nothing about such events, and I do not blame him, because it seems that his thinking is directed to serving the Zionist interests unconsciously.

Besides, the lands under Israel dominion was never occupied as James thinks, but it was Palestinian lands under the control of British power, which claimed that it would liberate from the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire, but when it entered the lands, it breached its pact with Palestinians, and gave the land to the Jews, together with backing them up with weapon and military training to become stronger as I afore mentioned.


Commenting on Jacob view, who was the only one to base his opinion on historical proof, namely the Bible. We should point out here that the Noble Qur’an too has related stories about Palestine, and the Jews attempts to enter it, since the era of Moses (may Allah be pleased with Him). This proves that this land belongs to the Palestinians, enough the testimony of the Qur’an and the Bible to make all the believers get convinced
 
that Palestine is to the Palestinians alone. Supposedly that Palestine was first inhabited by the Jews, would that give them the right to claim it once again after the passage of thousands of years, and after the Palestinians have lived in it all this period, during which the Jews were scattered all over the world, while it was the Palestinians who warded off all the invasions and wars, and watered its soil with their blood all along thousands of years. Or were the Palestinians just guards to this land, protecting it with their blood, sacrificing their children for its sake, awaiting for the Jews to come in the end, and take it by force, and with the power of terrorism and weapons?

Few are those who know the truth, and many are those who know nothing, and the proof is the young American girl called Lisly, who answered our question by the word “nothing”. Such answer is enough to throw light on a section of the American citizens, who knows nothing about the history of the conflict going on in Palestine. Then on what basis are their political views supportive to Israel or Palestine? No matter how just the judgment of this section towards the Palestinian case be, it will still remain lacking of correct historical basis, which we will explore through out this chapter.
 

The Messenger of Allah (may Allah bless him and grant him peace) said: “A group from my nation will remain adhering to religion victorious by it, and conquering their enemy. Not (the
least) harmed by those who desert them, except for the hardship they suffer until the Command of Allah (the Last Day) comes to pass while they are still so. They (the Companions) asked, ‘O Messenger of Allah! Where are they?’ He answered, ‘In Baitul- Maqdis (Jerusalem) and the environs of Baitul-Maqdis.’”
 
The History of Palestine The Whole Truth
History of the Arabic Region

When Christopher Columbus discovered the new continent, which is known today as America, the Arabic countries were then under the rule of a great Islamic state, namely the Ottoman Empire, which had extended its dominion over all the Arabic soil and countries known today, in addition to some other Islamic states. Such empire was the last Islamic state that had reigned over the Arabic region, and that was from the year 1516 till the year 1918.

The Arabic regions and the Middle East region had witnessed the rise of many governments and Islamic States that followed one after the other on its soil, according to place and time. The following table, which is compiled from different historic resources, shows the times of such states, and its geographic prevalence since the rise of Islam till the establishment of the Ottoman Empire:

The Reign	Ruling period	The geographic realm
The Rightly-
Guided Caliphs	632 - 661 A.D.	Arabic Peninsula + Bilad Al-Sham1 + Egypt + Iraq and a number of other countries.
The Umayyad
Caliphs	611 – 750 A.D.	The same countries + North Afirca + Sind region +
South of Spain and other countries
The Abbasid Caliphs	750 – 1259 A.D.	Most of the above countries save Palestine.
The Idrisid State	788 – 974 A.D.	Morroco.
The Tulunid State	868 – 905 A.D.	Egypt and Syria.
The Hamdanid
Dynasty	905 – 1004 A.D.	Syria and the Arabic Peninsula
The Fatmids	909 – 1171 A.D.	North of Africa + Egypt + West of the Arabic
Peninsula + Bilad Al-Sham.
The Ikhshidid State	935 – 969 A.D.	Egypt+ Palestine + Syria + some of the contiguous
countries.
The Mazidyon
State/The Zirid Dynasty	961 – 1150 A.D.	Middle of Iraq.
The Aqlyoun State	990 – 1096 A.D.	Iraq + Peninsula + north of Syria.
The Mardisid State	1032 – 1079 A.D.	Halab and north of Syria
The Almoravids	1065 – 1147 A.D.	North of Africa
The Almohads	1130 – 1269 A.D.	North of Africa
The Ayyubid
Dynasty	1169 – 1260	Egypt + Yamen + Bilad Al-Sham.





1 Bilad Al-Sham: Palestine, Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan
 
The Marinids and Wattasid Dynasty	1196 – 1549 A.D.	Morroco.
The Hafsids	1228 – 1574 A.D.	Tunsia.
The Mamluk State	1250 – 1517 A.D.	Egypt + Bilad Al-Sham + west of the Arabic
Peninsula.
The Ottoman
Sultans	1281 – 1924 A.D.	United all the arabic countries under it.

Note: this table cites the most important countries that the aforementioned states had ruled and not all of them.

This table reveals clearly the versatility of states that shared control, or contended with each others for the control of the Arabic region, the Middles East, and the Gulf. In addition, it pinpoints to the absence of any foreign influence in such regions, and especially what is now known as Israel.

Owing to the fact that the Middle East is privileged with great importance due to its spiritual and religious value, as it was the place of descent of religions and messengers. In addition, it is considered the commercial crossroads, and the point of junction of the three most important continents at that time: Europe, Africa, and Asia, hence it had witnessed many wars, which drained the Arabic nation for long centuries, because of the external greediness and the numerous invasions, in addition to the internal dissensions, which had caused states to fall down, and others to rise over its debris, as shown in the above table. Nevertheless, the external greediness remained the severer, in particular with the recurrence of attempts to destroy the Islamic state, lay hands on it, and manipulate its nations and riches.

The Crusades are considered one of the gravest invasions, under which the region had suffered the scourges of military expeditions, the first of which was prompted by Pope Urban II at Clermont in the year 1095. The historian Foucher de Chartres had talked about this incident in his book “Histoire du pèlerinage des Francs à Jérusalem”, where we quote what he said in page 122: “War is not to acquire just one city, but rather the region of Asia as a whole, together with its countless riches and treasures. Thus proceed to the sanctified tomb, and liberate the sacred land from the hands of the robbers, and take it to yourselves, for this land as the Torah has said outpours with milk and honey.”

Among the other important invasions that the Muslims suffered under during this long history, is the ravaging Mongol and Tatar invasions, which had overthrown the Abbasid Caliphs in the year 1258, and destroyed Baghdad, killing from its people more than 800 thousands, their troops advanced towards the rest of the Middle East countries, spreading fear all over the region, where Syria and Palestine had fallen under their dominion. Then and under the circle of struggle and contention between France and Britain, the former, under the leadership of Napoleon Bonaparte had mounted a campaign against Egypt and Palestine in the Year 1897, where he occupied many Palestinian cities, and committed a massacre killing more than 12000 Arab captives. Those last wars were not less greedy and atrocious, if they were not even more bloody, which brought about more affliction and hardship to the Arabic region that rankles with its wounds, for the British and the French had broken up the unity of the Islamic states and occupied them, imposing on the citizens different systems that violate the sanctities and traditions of these nations, enough to recall to our minds the number of victims of the French occupation in Algeria, which reached million and half a million martyrs, in
 
order for all to know the brutality of that occupier, who exceeded that of Tatar under the leadership of their savage leader Holako.

Controlling The Arabic Region And The Emergence of Colonies

Owing to the great number of wars that depleted the Islamic states and the Arabic nation, the colonizing power managed to overthrow the Ottoman Empire, and fetter its influence little by little. Then followed the signing of Sykes-Picot Agreement between France and Britain in 1916, through which they agreed upon dividing the Arabic region into controlling areas, thus they subjugated Lebanon and Syria to French dominion, while Jordan and Iraq were subjugated to the British dominion, as for Palestine it remained a small state. All this occurred without paying the least heed to the opinion of the people of the region, as if they did not care about the future of their land, or as if the people were no more than just slaves to the colonist to do to them whatever he wanted. Facing up this racial division and illegitimate control of the Arabic countries, it was the duty of the nations of the region to strive to liberate the Arabic lands from the British and French occupation. The following table shows the dates of independence of these countries, according to the information found in the Arab League site on the internet:

Country	Date of Independence		Country	Date of Independence
				
Jordan	25/5/1946		Oman	1950/11/18
Emirates	2/12/1971		Comoros	1975/07/06
Bahrain	1971/08/11		Qatar	1971/01/09
Tunis	1956/03/20		Kuwait	1961/02/25
Algeria	1962/07/05		Lebanon	1946/11/22
Djibouti	1971/08/11		Libya	1951/12/24
Saudi Arabia	1932/09/23		Egypt	1922/02/28
Syria	1946/04/17		Morocco	1956/03/02
Sudan	1956/01/01		Mauritania	1960/11/28
Somalia	1960/07/1		Yemen	1962/09/26North
1967South
Iraq	1932/10/03		Palestine	Still under Zionist occupation

The above table shows how all the Arabic countries have gained their independence, and put an end to the suppression and despotism of occupation, except Palestine that stills suffers savagery and brutality of the colonist without achieving its independence, and they were even expelled out of their land, and were driven away to contiguous countries, while others, who are foreigners to the region and totally different from its people in their conventions and customs were implanted in their place. They were embedded by the British colonist by the power of the arms, in revenge for the independence movements that emancipated the Arabic countries and lifted up high the flags of victory. Hence, it is rendered essential to clarify the whole story of the history of Palestine, so
 
that everyone knows how the world has now reached this stage of dissension, contention, warfare, disturbance, and genocide.


Palestine and the Historical Truth

It is considered easy to acquire accurate information substantiated by documented resources about the history of Palestine dating back to thousands of years till our contemporary time, and that because of the abundance of resources and studies that tackled this history, on top of the places that secure such information is the Palestinian Authority, and that to make sure that the information is free of any distortion or twisting, and in order for the coming generation, whether Palestinians or not, never to forget this history. On such basis, the Palestinian National Information Center working under the General Institute for Information, which in turn is affiliated to the Palestinian Authority, provides full historical information corroborated with studies and researches.

Prehistoric Palestine

The name of Palestine:

Palestine was known since ancient history as Kan’an land, where it was mentioned in the reports of one of the army leaders to King Mary. In addition, this name is found inscribed clearly on the obelisk of Adrimi, who was the king of Alkha (Tal Al-A’tshenah) during the middle of the fifth century before Christ. The origin of the word Palestine, as it was mentioned in the Assyrian records during the era of the king of Assyria (Addizary III) around the year 800 B.C. comes from the word Philsta, where he had inscribed on his obelisk that in the fifth year of his reign, his forces had submitted Palastu under his control, and compelled its people to pay taxes. Also the word Palestine was mentioned by Herodotus on Aramean basis, as we find him using it in referring to a place on the south part of Syria or (Palestinian Syria) nearby Finithya till the Egyptian boundaries. Moreover, the Romanian historians, like Agathar Chides, Strabo, and Diodoru had used such naming.

During the Romanian era, the name of Palestine used to be called on all the sacred land, then it developed to be the official name of this district since the era of Hadrian, thus this name grew to be widely used in the Christian church, where they used to refer to it quite often in the Christian pilgrims reports. On the other hands, Palestine used to be a part of Bilad Al-Sham during the Islamic era.

The fecundity of the Palestinian land, in addition to its distinguished position had made it habitable since ancient times, where it played an important role as a cultural junction between different places around the world, by virtue of its central position, which rendered it historically recognizable since ancient times.

The Ancient Stone Age

According to what the archeological discoveries have revealed, scientists agreed that man lived on the Palestinian land, he is known as man of erect stature,. Those ancestors were primarily hunters, who traveled in search of different herds of animals. Worth mentioning that prehistoric man during that period had passed through different
 
development phases, where he began to develop his hunting maneuvers and his tools made of stone. During the third phase of the Stone Age, the thinking man appeared, where the knife made of long blades, constituted the primary tool used in this period. Remnants of that man was discovered inside caves in Palestine, like Al-Amira cave, Irc Al-Ahmar, Al-wad, Kubarah and other places in Negev desert. This phase marks the beginning of human gatherings, that represented a developed social form, despite the fact that such groups remained surviving on hunting and the gathering of provision.

17000 – 8000 B.C.: Shifting from Gathering to Production

During that phase man progressed from the phase of gathering to that of production, where he started to search for the spots of water to settle around, and collect the seeds of small plants like wheat, barley to plant them, in addition to practicing hunting. Thus that phase from the Stone age was distinguished by stability, and development of the means of life and production, especially after man discovered pottery, and used it in building and manufacturing of tools.

8000 – 4000 B.C.: appearance of agricultural communities

Man during that phase depended on fishing and cultivation of some cereals, but he had not yet known breeding of animals. In addition to such activities, there were commercial connections between Palestine and Turkey, as tools made of Obsidian that Turkey used to export were found in Ariha and other countries, in return Ariha used to export raw materials, like tar, salt from Dead Sea. Then in subsequent phases man learned how to breed animals.

4000 – 2000 B.C.: The Closing of the Fourth millennium before Christianity

That period witnessed a clear change in the economic, social, architectural aspects in Palestine. Probably the most distinguished thing in that period is the appearance of a large number of cemeteries that are engraved inside the rocks in Palestine. During the subsequent periods, the usage of metals were discovered, where man started to manufacture from it tools and vessels. This period also witnessed the emergence of temples, which the excavation processes had unveiled their presence in many Palestinian cities and villages. As for the development of the industrial and commercial level, it pinpointed the demographic growth, together with the increase of the standard of living and the progress of agriculture.

Semites
According to the archeological discoveries in Egypt and Iraq, the Semites are considered the most ancient known nations, who lived on the Palestinian soil since the fourth millennium before Christ. They used to inhabit the eastern shore of the Mediterranean sea. As for the religious aspect, the Semites are considered - originally – the tribes descending from Shem, the eldest son of Noah (peace be upon him). What is confirmed, is that the original ancient inhabitants of Palestine were all Arab, who migrated from the Arabic Peninsula following a drought that stroke it. Thus they lived in their new native country “Canaan” for more than two thousands years before the appearance of the Prophet Moses (peace be upon him) and his followers.
 
Canaanites
According to the documented assessments, the famous Canaanites migration from the Arabic Peninsula occurred during the mid-third millennium before Christ. Though a group of the researchers have deduced that the Canaanites had settled in the country since the beginning of the third millennium, basing their assumption on the Egyptian Archeological discoveries. While others believe that the presence of the Canaanites dates back to seven thousands years ago, and that through tracing the monuments in their ancient cities, the most ancient of which is “Ariha” that stands erect till our day, and which is considered the most ancient city on earth. Although assessments of the precise beginning of the Canaanite presence has oscillated, what is unanimously agreed upon is that they were the first to inhabit this region among the ancient nations that were present at that time, and they were the first to erect on the soil of Palestine a civilization. It was mentioned in the Hebrew writings that Canaanites are the original inhabitants of the country, and it is also mentioned in Torah that they were the Amorite people. One of the most ancient cities that exist till our day is Ariha, Jericho, Asdod, Acco, Gaza, Al-Majdal, Jaffa, Askelan and Bisan. There are also many cities and villages, some of which still remain till our day, and others have perished. The metropolis of Canaan was Shekeem.

The Canaanites were renowned for cultivation and industry, they had excelled in mining, manufacturing of pottery, glass, clothes, and textile. In addition, they excelled in the art of architecture. Music and literature come on the top of the Canaanite’s civilization, where no other Semite population had ever cared for art and music like the Canaanites did, as they had quoted a lot from the music of the different nations, which took of the ancient Near East a home to them. As music constituted one of the worshipping rituals for Canaanites, thus their music rhythms, and instruments had spread all over the region. No one can gainsay that art and literature are the epitome of civilization. Thus there is no wonder when we trace the Israeli writings, we discover the great effort exerted by the Israelis to delude the whole world into thinking that they were the erectors of that grand civilization, and the composers of hymn, songs, and chanting. They had succeeded in making of this falsehood a fact in the eyes of many. But the great trusted historians like “Bristed” described the flourishing Canaanites city when the Hebrews entered it, as a city that contained luxurious and comfortable houses, a city that knew industry, trade, writing, and temples, thus it had a civilization, which the primitive Hebrew shepherds had emulated, hence they deserted their tents, and imitated them in building houses. Moreover, they took off the leather that they used to wear in the desert, to put on colorful wool clothes, and as time lapsed, it became hard to differentiate between the Canaanites and the Hebrews in the outward appearance. Then after the coming of the Palestinians from the seaside, and the Israelis from Jordan, the land of Canaan was split among three nations. Henceforth the Canaanites no longer became the sole masters of the country. Nevertheless, the Canaanite language remained the prevailing one. Since the dawn of recorded history, namely five thousands years ago, till the British mandate in the year 1920, Palestine had known only three languages: Canaanite language in the first place, then Aramean language, which was the language of Christ (peace be upon him), and thirdly the Arabic language.

2000 B.C. – 1200 B.C.

At the beginning of the second millennium B.C., cities had started to witness a certain vivacity, and new modes of architecture and cemeteries appeared, in addition to creation
 
of new forms of pottery and weapons. Moreover, this phase was distinguished by developed commercial and political relationships with most of the ancient Eastern regions, particularly, Egypt, Bilad Al-Sham, north of Syria, and east of Turkey. Besides, such phase was marked by the development of pottery manufacturing and the way of selecting the clay and mixing it, then molding it into shapes by means of a speedy wheel, thus producing elegant and versatile vessels. On the other hands, this phase was distinguished by a thorough Egyptian hegemony over Bilad Al-Sham during the reign of the eighteenth and nineteenth dynasties, who conquered the last of the Hixos kings around the year 1567 B.C., and that through the campaigns embarked by Thutmose III on Bilad Al-Sham around the year 1480 B.C., also it is characterized by the disappearance of the strong fortresses backed up by compact layers of mud that were built by the Hixos. Worth mentioning here, that during that period, Palestine had witnessed a state of turmoil that affected the region from the northern and middle districts with the beginning of the reign of the eighteenth dynasty, and that after the expulsion of the Hixos from Egypt and their chasing them away till Sharohin in the north of Palestine. Such events were recorded in detailed manuscripts since the era of Thutmose III, among such manuscripts, one relating the battle of Megiddo that was under leadership of King of Megiddo and King of Qadish on the Syrian part, who formed a coalition, to which more than one thousand and twenty cities entered. Such event was also mentioned in one of Thutmose’s III topographical manifests, also such scripts where found inscribed in one of the obelisks that were erected in Karnak and Memphis.

1200 – 550 B.C.: Era of Kingdoms (Iron Age):

During that period the Palestinians considered themselves the legitimate successors to the Egyptian authority in Palestine, thus they held sway over most of its parts. They are usually referred to as the inhabitants of the Palestinian coast, where they established a number of the main cities, like Gaza, Askalan, Asdoud, A’qir, Tal As-Safy, and others. The Canaanite impact had manifested itself over the Palestinians, such effect can be traced in the names of their deities, like Dagon and A’shtartout, also the religious life of the inhabitants of the Palestinian coast has its Canaanite origin, in addition to their religious edifices, most prominent of which is the consecutive series of temples in Tal Al- Kasilah that was built according to the fashion of Canaanite temples, with a touch of Egyptian architecture. On the other hand, there were claims made by the Israeli archeologists concerning the origin of some archeological discoveries and architectures, which they attributed to the old Israelis, and which was known in the foreign sources as “collared-rimjar”.

Israeli People:

The word “Israel” refers to Jacob (peace be upon him), who was the son of Isaac and the grandson of Ibrahim (peace be upon them), who was the father of this nation. Ibrahim was born in the city of Ur of Chaldees, he arrived at the land of Canaan around the twentieth or twentieth-one century B.C., after leaving his country along with some members of his family to worship Allah acting upon the Divine Revelations sent down to him, as his clan used to worship idols, while he was monotheist. Haran situated in the eastern north between Euphrates and Khabour, was his first stop, where his father “Tarih” passed away. He then proceeded till he arrived at Shakim (Nablus). Ibrahim begot his elder son, Ishmael (peace be upon them) grandfather of the Arab, from his wife Hajar (peace be upon her), then he had his second son Isaac (peace be upon him) from his wife Sarah (peace be upon her), who is the grandfather of the Jews. Isaac then begot
 
Esau and Jacob (Israel), who begot 12 son, each of whom was a forebear of one of the tribes of the Jews. Among the sons of Jacob was Joseph (peace be upon them), whose brethrens out of grudge and envy cast him into a well in the desert, and claimed that he was killed. Then a group of pedestrians found him, and he was sold to Egyptian traders, and there Joseph joined in the service of Pharaoh, where he wielded great authority, thus he sent after his father and brothers. Thereof the family of Jacob moved to Egypt. No one knows when did the Pharaoh of Egypt turn against them, and started to subjugate and torture them, till the Prophet Moses (peace be upon him) started to think of emigration. Upon the Mount, Allah inspired Moses to return to Egypt and save his clan, and take them out of Egypt. Thereof Moses and Haroun (peace be upon them) returned to Egypt to get their clan out, and henceforth the travel of dispersion began, which was around the year 1227 B.C.. During that period the people of Moses renegaded and worshipped the calf, upon which the Ten Commandments were descended, then the people of Israel remained in a state of stray for forty years.

•	The Prophet Moses (peace be upon him) had sent more than one scout to (explore) situations in Canaan lands, who returned to inform him that Canaan is an affluent land, outpouring with milk and honey. Despite this, its people were strong and the Israelis had no power to contend with them.
•	When the Israelis took the decision to enter the land of Canaan, they encountered a tough resistance from the inhabitants of the north region, thus they had to venture eastward, crossing east of Jordan first, where Moses (peace be upon him) died. Thereby Prophet “Yousha’ Bin Noon (Joshua) took over the leadership, who insisted on fighting. The first city that the Israelis first trod on was “Ariha”, where they besieged it till it fell into their hands. Then they laid their hands on most of the north of Palestine. While the Canaanites retained a part of it, as for the rest of Palestinians they retained the western part. Ever since the era of Judges, which was the period succeeding the death of Yousha’ (Joshua), the three nations coexisted for hundreds of years, which was penetrated by a series of Canaanite-Israeli wars, and Palestinian-Israeli war. That era extended over a century and a half, during which 12 judges had ruled, last of whom was Samuel. Then the Isrealis had agreed upon appointing Saul as their king, under recommendation of Samuel himself, and that to unite their tribes under one entity. Though he died in one of the battles against the Palestinians. He was then succeeded by Prophet and King David (peace be upon him) (1010 B.C. – 971 B.C.), followed by his son Prophet Solomon (971 B.C. – 931 B.C.) (peace be upon him), whose era was marked by peace not war.). Moreover he was characterized by sagacity, and his commercial activity. On the year 724 B.C. the Israeli entity got vanquished on the hands of the Assyrians. Then came Nebuchadnezzar, who defeated the Assyrians and founded the Chaldean Empire, that ruled Palestine.

The Persian Empire
550 B.C. – 330 B.C.: the Persian Empire and the Era of Alexander the Great
It is considered the heir of Assyria; it was founded by its earlier monarchs: Cyrus, king Cambyses, and Darius I. The Persian realm extended from Aeja sea westward to the Indian boundaries in the east, and from the southward of Egypt to the Black sea and the
 
Caucasus Mountains in the north. When king Darius ascended the throne, he divided the empire into 20 states, each state had a governor, appointed by him. Hence Palestine was a part of the fifth state that was then known by its aramean name “Abr Nahra”, meaning “overseas”. The river pointed to, is the Euphrates river. That state constituted then the whole of Bilad Al-Sham that was formed of Syria, Cyprus, and Phoenicia.


330 B.C. – 63 B.C.

In the year 334 B.C., Alexander the Great of Macedon crossed the sea to Asia Minor, where he achieved the first victory against the Persians in the battle of Granicus, and in the same year he conquered the king of the Persians in the battle of Issus in Cilicia. Then he headed towards the south near the coasts of Bilad Al-Sham, out of desire to destroy the naval Phoenician fleet, upon which the Persians depended in the eastern part of the Mediterranean sea, thus he crossed Mount Taurus, where he founded Miriandos city, which is now known as Alexandria. He then dispatched a regiment of his troops to Damascus, which seized it, after that he proceeded to the Syrian coast and seized it in the winter of the year 332 B.C.. Following his death, the empire faced lot of wars and internal struggles for the seizure of power, such struggles led to the establishment of two states: the Seleucid state in Syria, and the Ptolemaic one in Egypt. In the year 175 B.C., a war in Palestine broke out between the Macabians and the Seleucids, which lasted for forty years, and terminated by the foundation of the Hashmonian dynasty that was exterminated at the hands of Pompey on the year 63 B.C., when he occupied Jerusalem, rendering Palestine a part of the Roman Empire, as was the case with the rest of Bilad Al-Sham.

The Roman Empire 63 B.C. – 636 A.D.

The Romans started to interfere in the affair of the Seleucid state since the outset of the second century B.C., owing to weakness and impotence that had befallen the Seleucid state, due to the eternal wars that it got involved in it, and the triumph of the Romans under the command of Domitius Ahenobarbus, who defeated King Antiochus III at the Battle of Magnesia in the year 190 B.C.

Moreover, history recorded that in the year 63 B.C., the Romanian troops under the leadership of Pompey entered Jerusalem after a long siege and a hard fight that left behind it a huge number of dead people, thereupon Palestine and the west of Syria became a part of the Romanian province. The first governor that was appointed over Syria was Crassus, then in the year 57 B.C. Ghabyonous took over the rule of Syria, who had brought back the administrative regime to Jerusalem. Then in the year 54 B.C. Crassus returned to the government of Syria. He was a party to what is known as the First Triumvirate (Roman power-sharing alliance) that was signed between Julius Caesar, Pompey the Great, and Marcus Crassus, by virtue of which power was split among them
. But soon after that, dissension aroused between Pompey and Caesar, followed by the assassination of Julius Caesar, then one of the conspirators, who was Crassus became governor over Syria (44 B.C.- 42B.C.). In the year 42 B.C. Mark Antony and Octavian defeated the murderers of Julius Caesar. Then the reign of Herod began, who ruled over the area of Jerusalem and Palestine, his rule lasted from 37 B.C. to 4 B.C.. Before his death, he nominated Antipas as his successor to the throne, who reigned over the greatest part of Palestine, his monarchy lasted from 4 B.C till 39 B.C.. It is recorded that
 
he made of Tiberias city his metropolis. In the year 41 A.D. Palestine became a Romanian state.

The Rise of Christianity

Jesus Christ (peace be upon him) was born in Bethlehem in the year 4 B.C.. this period was divided into three phases.

•	The first phase that followed the time of Christ, which is called the era of messengers (30 – 95 A.D.)
•	The second phase that extended over a century starting from the end of the first century to the end of the second century, it is marked by the embracement of Constantine the Great to Christianity in the year 312.
•	The third phase is marked by the eruption of an internal revolution in the second half of the third century against the Romans led by king of tadmuriyah Odenathus and his widow “Zenobia” after his death . In the year 272 A.D., the Roman emperor Aurelian managed to quell this revolt, at the expense of Tadmuriyah.

In the year 395 A.D. the Romanian empire was split into two parts: an eastern part, and a western one. Where Theodosius the Great appointed his son Arcadius emperor of the East, and ordered that he should be an independent ruler, he took charge in the year 395 till 408 A.D., he also nominated his second son “Honorius” emperor of the west, and he ascended the throne in the year 395 A.D. till 423 A.D.

Worth mentioning here, is that after the reign of Constantine and till the year 527 A.D., around 17 emperors ascended the throne, four among them usurped the throne.

It is recorded that emperor Justinian II ascended the Byzantine throne in the period (565
– 578 A.D.), then he appointed Tiberius as his successor (578 – 582), followed by Maurice (582 – 602 A.D.), then Phocas (602 – 610 A.D.), then Heraclius (610 – 641 A.D.).

Wars between the Byzantines and the Sassanids had oscillated between severe and subdued, where many truces and treaties were concluded between them, but no sooner a treaty was signed than it was revoked, and war broke.

For in the years 610 – 622 A.D. the Persians launched attacks against the Romans, and they achieved triumph in their campaigns, thus in the year (614) they usurped Antakya, Damascus, and Jerusalem. But the continuous state of war and other matters had drained the two empires, thus they could not confront the Arabs, who put an end to the Sassanian state, and took over Bilad Al-Sham, and Egypt from the Byzantines in the conclusive battle called “Yarmuk” (15 A.H./636 A.D.).

The Islamic Arabic Conquest

With the outset of the era of conquests, the Islamic troops headed towards Bilad Al- Sham; the first city that was opened by the Muslims was Basra, and that was during the
 
rule of ‘Abu Bakr As-Siddiq (may Allah be pleased with him). Then they proceeded to Palestine, where they confronted the Roman Byzantines in a ferocious battle known by “The Battle of Ajnadin”, which ended with the victory of the Muslims, and the flee of the Byzantine troops to the city of Fahl on the eastern Jordan bank nearby Bysan, there the Islamic army besieged them, ending with the surrender of the people of Fahl city to the Muslims. In the same year of Jumada I ‘Abu Bakr As-Siddiq) died, he was succeeded by ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab (may Allah be pleased with him).

Defeats hailed down on the Romans by the hands of the Muslims, who fought them in most of Bilad Al-Sham. When news of the defeat of the Romans in the Battle of Yarmuk reached Heraclius, he departed from Antakya to Constantinople. The battle took place in the year 636 A.H., the number of Muslims in this battle did not exceed quarter the number of the Roman soldiers, despite this they achieved an overwhelming victory. The battle of Yarmuk was the last decisive battles that took place in Bilad Al-Sham, after it the Roman kingdom dwindled to be confined only over Jerusalem and Qisarya. The conquest of Jerusalem was one of the most important targets to the Islamic state at that time. Hence the Islamic armies besieged the city, but the people of Jerusalem refused to surrender to ‘Abu ‘Ubaidah bin Al-Jarrah (may Allah be pleased with him), who was the leader of the Islamic armies, and demanded that the one with whom they would hold peace truce, and open the gates of the city to, be ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab. Thereon, Abu ‘Ubaidah sent a dispatch to ‘Umar, upon which he headed towards Jerusalem to open its gates to Muslims.


Palestine During the Era of the Rightly-Guided Caliphs

After the Arabic Islamic conquest of Palestine, it became a province belonging to the Islamic polity, where it enjoyed under its umbrella a sort of stability it had never known before. Before that time it was an area of contention between the two most powerful empires (the Byzantine empire and the Persian empire). After the Islamic conquest during the rule of (‘Umar bin Al-Khattab), he appointed ‘Amr bin Al-‘As (may Allah be pleased with him) as its governor, he was succeeded by ‘Abdur-Rahman bin ‘AlKamah Al-Kanany, after his death ‘Al-kamah bin Magzr took over. Such was the case till the Caliph Uthman bin ‘Affan (may Allah be pleased with him) put Palestine in charge of Mu‘awiyah bin Abi Sufian , who was the governor of Syria then.

The Era of the Umayyad Caliphs

During that era Palestine started a new phase of its history, when Mu‘awiyah bin Abi Sufian (may Allah be pleased with him) declared himself Caliph, whereby he founded the rule of the Umayyad Dynasty, which lasted about 90 years. He started his reign by going to Jerusalem, where he declared his caliphate in the year 661, then people pledged allegiance to him.

When the rule devolved to Yazid bin Mu’awiah, internal turmoil started to rise, which was instigated by his opponents, like Al-Hussain bin ‘Ali (may Allah be pleased with him), the martyr of Karbala’, and ‘Abdullah bin Az-Zubair (may Allah be pleased with him) who claimed his right to caliphate after the death of Al-Hussain, thus people of Hejaz and parts of Iraq rallied around him, causing a fraction in the internal unity. When Yazid died, the beginning of another sedition started to forge ahead, as people after his death became more inclined to the side of Ibn Az-Zubair, except for Syria, which
 
pledged its allegiance to Mu‘awiyah bin Yazid bin Mu‘awiyah, but his reign did not last long, as he died shortly after his accession to the throne by forty days. Whereupon the people of Syria sided with bin Az-Zubair, except for the soldiers of Jordan and Palestine, under the leadership of Hassan bin Malik bin Al-Kalby, who was biased to Mu’awiah bin Abi Suffian (the Umayyad Caliphate), thus he set off towards Jordan to be near the scene of events, after deputing Ruh bin Zinbaa’ Al-Jazamy to take the lead of the soldiers of Palestine. But soon after, Nathil bin Qayis Al-Jazamy declared his allegiance to Ibn Az- Zubair and expelled Ruh to Jordan, which was the only party that still remained with the Umayyad Caliphate. After the Battle of Marj Rahit, views in Syria settled on Marwan bin Al-Hakam as Caliph, and after him Khalid bin Yazid bin Mu‘awiyah. Consequently, caliphate returned once again to Abdul Malik bin Marawan succeeding his father. During the reign of Abdul Malik till that of his son Hisham bin Abdul Malik, Palestine enjoyed stability and prosperity, and no grave incident perturbed its tranquility. But with the advent of the rule of Hisham, weakness started to find its way in the Umayyad State, and internal conflict started to escalate. The last of the Umayyad dynasty was Marwan bin Muhammad, whose rule marked the downfall of the Umayyad era, and the rise of the Abbasid Caliphate.


The Era of the Abbasid Caliphate
Following the murder of Marwan bin Muhammad, circumstances made it easy for the Abbasid to impose their control over Syria, thus the cities started to fall one after the other without the least resistance. After ‘Abdullah bin ‘Ali succeeded in submitting Damascus to his power in 16 April 750 A.D., he entered Palestine to begin a new era in the history of this Arabic land. The Abbasids followed a tough policy with the rest of Umayyad followers in Syria, but its people faced such policy with incessant revolts all along the period of the Abbasid reign, thus Syria was to them a thorn in its side.


The Tulunid State
The last monarchy during the Abbasid era was full of many incidents that was marked by lack of stability and devotion from the part of the Syrians towards the Abbasids. These circumstances subsisted till authority reverted to Ahmad bin Tulun, the founder of the Tulunid State, which was established in Egypt in 870 A.D. He wanted to extend his influence on Bilad Al-Sham on the plea of preserving the Islamic countries from the lurking Byzantine enemy. Thus he worked on annexing it, and he kept exerting all his efforts to preserve the Islamic countries till he died in 884, then the rule devolved to his son “Khumarawaih”, thus the Tulunid State lasted till the Arabic tribes in Syria started to perform acts opposing to the authority. Nevertheless, Syria remained subordinate to Baghdad till the rise of the Ikhshidid State.

The Ikhshidid Rule

It was founded by Abu Bakr bin Tughj, which marked the beginning of the Ikhshidid reign in Egypt and Syria, Abu Bakr rule lasted till he died in 946 A.D., his body was transmitted to Jerusalem, where he was buried. He was succeeded by Abu Al-Qasim Abu Gour.
 
The Fatimids

The Fatimids era started by establishing their state in Egypt, and then they set their eyes on Bilad Al-Sham. They succeeded in extending their realm to Syria by an army led by Jawhar Al-Siqilli during the reign of the Fatimid Caliph Al-Mu'iz li-Dinillah. This period was marked by internal disability and wars, owing to both internal and external factors, most important of which is that the Fatimids State was founded on Shiite basis, contrary to the sect that was prevalent then in Syria. Such sectarian difference brought about dissension in both the authority and the government. Besides other reasons that were manifest in the greed of many sects to usurp Bilad Al-Sham and assume authority. In addition to the desire of others to be independent by declaring themselves independent provinces.

The Seljuk State

The Turkish people known as “Seljuk” started to sneak towards the north of Iraq and Syria in 1067 A.D.. They were not of the same descent as the Arabic clans in Bilad Al- Sham, but they were rather from Turkistan, who were new to Islam. They mingled with the people of Syria, and soon they became the rulers and the army, thus they undertook the responsibility of defending the country against the Europeans, and Mongol for around four centuries. They forced their dominion on the region by military power till the beginning of the twentieth century.

Europeans

The period of the Crusades extended from the year 1095 till 1291, which were military expeditions launched against many targets in the east. The First Crusade began after the proclamation made by pope Urban II at Clermont in the year 1095, where he urged for the waging of the Crusades saying “Christ commands it”. Thus the first Crusades had been mounted on dogmatic basis under ideological slogans in order to lay hands on the sacred places in the east, the birthplace of Christianity. The pope deemed that when the western Catholic Church have the central role in these Crusades, it would be able to occupy the authoritative posts in the east, whether from the political or religious aspect, as was the case in the west. The eleventh century witnessed a religious renaissance on a wide scale, especially among public classes, who had harbored the idea of the Crusades. For when the call for launching these military expeditions under the flag of the cross began, it found a great approval from these classes. As for the popes, their power increased during that century, and especially during the period of Pope Gregory VII, and after him, Pope Urban II, who consolidated the power of the church, and saw in the Crusades a way to strengthening more the sway of the church, besides answering the demand of the Byzantine emperor, who dispatched asking for their help, after feeling danger besieging his metropolis, and his inability to ward off the hazard of losing the sacred places to the Arabs.

Thus Europe during the eleventh century was prepared both spiritually and physically to accept the idea of the Crusades, owing to the dire social situations, population increase, and the nature of the agricultural lands, in addition to the natural disasters and epidemics, not to mention greed, all these factors aided to instill the idea of the Crusades.

The First Crusades: The First Crusades took place when the Byzantine Emperor asked for military aid in the form of a mercenary army to defend his metropolis. Thus the
 
European answer came in the form of a crusade expedition, which was an unexpected response to the Byzantine emperor, who thus got entangled in a critical situation. In Clermont (in France) on November 1095, Pope Urban II had delivered a zealous speech that flared up the religious emotions of a huge number of spectators, thus before such huge congregation, he called for carrying the weapon in defense of the Christians in the east who were oppressed, and in order to deliver Al-Qiyamah church and eastern Christianity generally. Thereupon, all shouted, “Christ commands it”, and they thronged around the pope to express their approval and support, he then promised those who would participate of redemption from sins, exemption from taxes, and total care of their families during their absence, as for those who would refrain from participation in the expedition he admonished them of being shut out from the church. Zeal for this campaign spread from France till it reached the rest of the European countries. The idea of mounting a Crusade was strange to the Byzantines whether on the level of the elite or the commons, for they only were thinking of how to ward off the Seljuk danger, and they regarded the Crusaders with suspicion and saw in them a group of barbers of the same sort as the Seljuk who were threatening the east. When the first Crusade campaign approached Constantine under the leadership of Monk Peter, its bad reputation had preceded it all along the way from France till Constantine, thereupon the Emperor, who was known by his cunning, hastened to divert its course towards the small Asian coast, where they fell as a bait to the Seljuks, who put them to the sword. After the perishing of the crusade army under the leadership of Monk Peter in the summer of 1096, mobilization of forces for the First Crusade began in the west of Europe, which was the biggest army under joint leadership, such troops had to gather in Constantine before venturing in the lands under Seljuk control, in this campaign France constituted the main force in this campaign.

War against the Seljuk began with insubstantial participation from the Byzantine army. The Crusade troops started to besiege and occupy provinces that fell one after the other, they then proceeded northward to Palestine, where they took over (Magharat No’man (No’man cave)), and committed in it a huge massacre, then on their way to the coast they laid hold of other districts. After fortifying their posts in Sour, Acre, they headed to Jerusalem and other sanctified places. They reached the city in May 1099, where they besieged it from 7 May till 15 July 1099, then swarmed inside the city to commit horrible massacres against the native residents. After establishing the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem, the leaders moved to proceed with their military expeditions all along the coast and inside the countries.

When the Fatimid awoke on the reality of the Crusade occupation to their Arabic lands, which was too late, they attempted to confront them, but they were defeated in a terrestrial battle nearby Askalan in August 1099. The Crusaders then moved to occupy the rest of the coastal cities, as for Askalan it remained a threat to the Crusade kingdom till the year 1153, thus when it fell, the whole coast became under the Crusaders control. Over more than 50 years, fighting between the Fatimid and the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem did not stop.

The Second Crusades (1146-1149 A.D.)
During that time, internal struggle between the Crusaders had reached its peak, besides clashes with the Byzantines, where the Byzantine Emperor Alexius took advantage of the falling of Bohemond I as hostage in the hands of the Turkish leader “Amir Malik Ghazi” to usurp Antakya from him, for after negotiations took place to ransom Bohemond I,
 
Alexius refused to restore Antakya to him, all this furnished an opportunity to the Seljuks to regain their lands that they had lost. For in the year 1104, the Seljuk inflicted upon Bohemond a disgraceful defeat in Harran, where he forfeited most of the lands that were under his control in Syria. On the other, the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem was expanding in all directions, which caused a state of uprise in the city of Mosul, where a movement began to take shape in the year 1113 to unite Islamic provinces in Iraq and Syria for the sake of uniting efforts to confront the Europeans. Such movement reached its peak during the time of ‘Imad Al-Din Zinky, who emerged in the years (1127-1146), he managed to impose his power over the governors of provinces in Iraq and Syria, except for Damascus. Thus ‘Imad Al-Din Zinky paved the way to a new phase of confrontation with the Europeans that continued during the time of his son Nour El-Din Zinky, and after them Salah El-Din Al-Ayyubi till the era of Mamluks, who had succeeded in putting an end to the Latin kingdom of Jerusalem.

The Ayyubid Dynasty

Salah El-Din Yusuf bin Ayyub was born in 1138, in Tikrit in Iraq, he descended from a Kurdish family. He moved on with his father to Baalbak in Lebanon, where he was appointed as a military leader during the era of ‘Imad Al-Din Zinky, then he moved on with his uncle “Assad Al-Din Shirkuh” to Egypt in the year 1164, who was appointed in the ministry in Cairo, then Salah El-Din succeeded him. In 1171, he abrogated the Fatimid Caliphate, and declared his allegiance to the Abbasid Caliph, since then disagreement aroused between him and ‘Imad Al-Din Zinky, which ended with the death of the latter.

Afterwards, Salah Al-Din undertook to unite Egypt and Syria under his leadership, so that he could fulfill his dream of exterminating the Crusader presence. The year 1187 marked a great historical event, which was the Battle of Hattin that brought about a turning point in the relation between East and West, in such a way that placed the Crusade presence in the East in a state of defense. Following the Battle of Hattin, Salah Al-Din overtook Tiberias, then he proceeded towards Acre, in addition to Galilee, Nablus, Yafa, Gaza, Ashqelon, Beirut, and Sayda, which all yielded to him. After that he retrieved Al-Naserya, Qysaryah, Safad, Safoureya, Al-Shaqif, and Jabal Al-Tour. Till he arrived at Al-Quds Al-Shari (Jerusalem), where he besieged it, and compelled the Crusaders to depart from it by a covenant, and on 27 Rajab (1187 A.D.) he held Jumu‘ah Prayer (Friday Prayer) in Al-Aqsa Masjid. Crusaders then gathered in three coastal cities: Antakya, Tripoli, and Soor.

Third Crusade

The Third Crusade was led by the strongest European kings during that time, thus this expedition came after the fall of Jerusalem. Despite dissensions between kings, this expedition managed to arrive at Palestine and besiege Acre. Upon which Salah Al-Din mobilized quickly to besiege the Crusaders, and with the arrival of the French and the English troops a great battle took place, the mutual siege lasted from August 1189 till June 1191 to end with the fall of Acre. In September 1192 the two contending parties, after prolonged negotiations, reached a three years truce, according to it, a crusade kingdom was established with Acre as its center, and the Christians were given the right to visit the sacred places in both Al-Quds Al-Sharif (Jerusalem) and Al-Naserya. After the truce, Salah Al-Din returned back to Damascus after 20 years of incessant strife to die on
 
3 March 1193. Nevertheless, war with Crusaders never stopped, till the reign of Mamluks.

Mamluks
The Mamluks regime was known since the Abbasid era with its military power, for many of them had come from among the front line troops to assume authority. After the downfall of the Ayyubid reign this regime occupied a distinguished position, for the end of Banu Ayyub was by the hands of the Mamluks, where they founded a kingdom in Egypt and Bilad Al-Sham that lasted two centuries and a half. The Mamluks succeeded to rescue Egypt at the last moment, and that after the seventh Crusade Expedition managed to take over Damietta and was heading towards Cairo, while Al-Salih Ayyub was on his death bed, who then died, leaving the state to face such threat. Thereupon, the Mamluks convened and decided to fight the Crusaders, whom they conquered. During such time, a man called “Baybars” appeared on the scene of events, he was the real founder of the state of Mamluks. Thus, the Mameluks dominated and ascended the throne of Egypt while the Ayyubid remained rulers of Great Syria. But that didn’t last long, because the Mongols, led by “Holaco”, were already heading eastwards, where they invaded Baghdad and put an end to the Abbasides, destroying the country and ravaging its civilization in 1260. Then, they moved to Damascus, which faced the same destiny. They threatened “ Al Sultan Qutuz who was appointed a ruler in Cairo in (1259-1260). So, Qutuz reunified Muslims and “Baybars” joined him. They both went forward to fight the Mongols. They came across their vanguards at Gaza and defeated them and proceeded until their forces met in “Ein Jalout” (Marj Ben Amer). There, both armies met in a ferocious battle on 6th September 1260 A.C. where the Mamluks gained victory. This victory had a historical influence in West Asia. After that, “Baybars” insisted to put an end to the European existence. So, he assassinated Qutuz and took over the regime and he was nicknamed Al- Zahir i.e. the conquering king in (1260-1277).

The Ottoman Era

On the threshold of this period, the Mameluks rule terminated. Most countries of the Arab world had been annexed to the Ottoman State, which ruled for about four centuries. The influence of the Ottoman State, which was centralized in Istanbul, extended to Balqan and Anadul for two centuries of wars and expansion.

By the existing of this central combating power in the area, the conflict for domination broke out among three powers, namely: the Ottoman State, the Safawiya State arising in Tabreez, and the Mamluks. In August 1514 A.C. the first decisive battle broke out between the Ottoman State led by “Saleem the First” and the Safwiya State led by Shah Ismail” in “Jaldiran” near Tabreez. The Ottomans gained victory because of the firearm, which they excelled in using them.

After two years, the Ottomans defeated the Mamluks in a decisive battle in (Marj Dabeq) near Aleppo on 23, August 1516. That was the end of the Mameluk rule when the Ottomans occupied Egypt.

Saleem the First: During the same year, “Saleem the First” conquered Great Syria without any resistance because the Syrians hated the Mamluks at that time on one hand and they were afraid of the Ottomans on the other hand. After the death of “Saleem”, his son, “Soleiman” took over the rule (1520-1566) and he was nicknamed as the “the
 
legist or the legal expert or the legal scholar” due to the multiplicity of laws he had issued in order to organize the affairs of the State.

During the time of Soleiman, the Ottoman Empire uniquely flourished and expanded as it extended to include three continents. Also it inherited the Abbasid Caliphate and the Byzantine Empire so, “Istanbul” became a center of the Islamic World, and the Islamic Civilization was rejuvenated. But after the discovery of America and the Cape of Green Hope, as well as the threshold of European renaissance, the center of power started to shift to the West.


Zaher Al-Omar Al-Zidany: he was born in the last decade of the Seventieth century. Following the death of his father, he assumed responsibility in the two villages called Arbah and Al-Damon in Palestine. He then started to extend his influence through holding alliance with Bedouin tribes, on the other hand, He was involved in border conflicts, where he worked on reinforcing his army and fortifying areas under his rule, taking advantage of the Turks occupation with their wars with the Russians. Thus he established a deterrent central force in Palestine, where he took over Haifa, Yafa, Alid, and Nabulus. After a short while of his rule, which was beset with conflicts and scrimmages, his power grew weak, and he fell under siege of the Ottoman fleet, then a great army marched against him, which inflicted on him a devastating blow. His rule ended with his death, as his sons were not qualified to assume the reign of power after him, thus the way was open to “Ahmad Al-Jazar” (Agha) to seize power.

Ahmad Pasha Al-Jazar: Agha Ahmad (known as Al-Jazar) appeared on the scene of events in Acre, he was a Mamluk of Bosnian origin. He assumed the government of Sayda and Damascus intermittently between 1775 till his death in 1804. His rule was characterized by his hegemony over the local force in Palestine, and Lebanon mountains, he defied the Ottomans, and annexed Damascus state to his influence.

Napoleon Bonaparte expedition (1798 – 1801):

The military expedition that Napoleon mounted against Egypt and Bilad Al-Sham can be marked as the beginning of the European colonization of the Arabic territories, following the industrial revolution that Europe has witnessed. After achieving a victory over the Mamluks and his entering Cairo in June 1798, Napoleon Bonaparte headed a military expedition to Bilad Al-Sham. The expedition did not go beyond Palestine, and its coast, except for Al-Naserya and Tabarya, where it conquered the Ottoman army. The campaign began by occupying Katyah in Sinai, then it proceeded to Arish Castle. After the passage of three months, the expedition started to retreat back to Egypt after it suffered a defeat in Acre in May 1799. In 28 February 1800, the French army headed by Kléber proceeded towards Asdoud, then to the village of Bayneh, Al-Ramlah, and Yafa. Moreover, they took over Hifa after a ferocious fight. They headed towards Acre, which was distinguished by its fortified gates, and strong fortresses, which stood fast before their attacks. A fierce battle took place, where the people of Acre with the help of the English troops and some of the Ottoman troops attacked the French army. Napoleon tried to break into the gates of Acre more than seven times without succeeding. But soon the Black Death showed its grim face, claiming the souls of the French army. In May 1800, Napoleon wrote to his administrative government in Paris, informing them that occupying Acre was not worth all such losses, thereupon he decided to withdraw back to Egypt to continue his expedition there. During such time, a dispatch arrived from Paris,
 
informing Napoleon that it was necessary to return to France, he retreated in May 1800, after a siege that lasted for 64 days.

Muhammad Ali’s Campaign
After the withdrawal of Napoleon, Al-Jazar returned and imposed his hegemony over the countries, but he returned more despotic, where he overburdened the people with more taxes to recompense his losses in wars, but no sooner had he ascended the throne than he died in 1804. He was succeeded by his Mamluk Soliman Pasha, who was named Al-‘Adil (the just one) contrary to Al-Jazar (the butcher), his rule concurred with that of “Muhammad Ali” in Egypt and Mahmoud II in Istanbul. The reign of Soliman Pasha was characterized by stability and rebuilding of the country’s infrastructure, till Ibrahim Pasha came in 1819-1831, who adopted the policy of Al-Jazar, which stirred the wrath of local leaders, who staged many mutinies. On the first of October 1831, Muhammad Ali mounted an army towards Palestine under leadership of his son Ibrahim Pasha, who occupied Gaza, Jaffa (Yafa), Jerusalem, and Galilee without any resistance, and after a six months siege Acre fell in his hands. He then headed towards Damascus, which he entered in 14 June 1832, where a battle took place nearby Homs between him and the Ottoman army that he defeated and took over Halab, Hamah, and Antakya. Following Billan Battle in 30 June 1832, he delved deep inside Asia Minor (Anatolia) and defeated the Ottoman at the city of Konieh in 21 December 1832, where he captivated the great vizier. In the face of such victories, the European countries intervened for reconciliation, where a treaty was concluded between the contending parties, known by “Treaty of Kutaya (treaty of May 1833)”, by virtue of which Sultan Mahmoud II acknowledged the hereditary rule of Muhammad Ali over Egypt and Bilad Al-Sham. Nevertheless, the Egyptian rule did not last for long (only nine years). For after the Egyptian withdrawal from the region of Bilad Al-Sham, it returned back under the Ottoman sovereignty through the intervention of the European countries, on top of which was Britain, such an act had increased the European leverage in the region, which was further deepened due to the general weakness that had befallen the government. The reason behind the attempts of the European countries to interfere in the internal affairs of this region, and particularly in Bilad Al-Sham was due to their economic and strategic interests in the East, moreover they have found in the religious minorities and their civil rights a pretext for interfering in the internal affairs of the Ottoman rule. Moreover, the number of European consuls in the sultanate increased, and their leverage expanded, as their interference reached government, administration, economy, courts, and the subjects’ affairs. The most prominent among them was the British consul “Woods”, who acted as an actual governor of the countries under the cloak of executing the regulations. In addition to this, the European countries proceeded to spur social, religious, and national sects against the central government, and stirring up disturbance against it in various areas, all this with the aim of weakening the government and sharing with it the places of influence. On the other hand, the consuls of such countries adopted the issues of Christian minorities, and they extended their protection to the Jewish groups in Jerusalem and other places, in addition to securing residency to the early Jewish immigrants. Beside this, missionary movements witnessed a great increase, where they concentrated their efforts in Jerusalem. By the end of the Nineteenth century, the percent of missioners compared to that of the inhabitants in Jerusalem was greater than any other country around the world, and when it became evident that the Ottoman Empire was sunsetting, everyone hastened to secure a foothold in it to impose his dominion over a part of its lands after its division.
 
We will explore now the period that succeeded the Islamic rule of Palestine, and the beginning of the appearance of Zionists on this Arabic territory, depending on our same resource, which is the Palestinian National information Center that is under Palestinian National Authority. The Palestinian Center refers to a large number of sources that document this stage from the history of Palestine which we shall quote at the end. So how did the Zionist infiltration into the Arab Muslim Palestine start?


The Zionist Settlement in Palestine

It is worth mentioning that during that period of the nineteenth century, there appeared in Bilad Al-Sham, including Palestine, what is known as national awareness with its modern concept, whose pillars were crystallized in Europe in parallel with the development of capitalism. Owing to the crystallization of this national awareness, in addition to the intellectual and cultural alertness in the Arabic nation that strived for unity, independence, and control of its economic resources, a general sentiment of defiance emanated against all forces that were foreign and occidental to this unified Arabic nation. Thus there was a patriotic alertness to stand up to the Zionist settlement and resist it in Palestine since its start. Nevertheless, such efforts were not translated into an organizational framework, which would be based on methodical foundations following a certain program. Contrary to the Zionist movement, which no sooner after holding a Zionist conference at Basel in Switzerland in 1897, they formed their organizations, in such a way that fulfills their goals.

It is noted that during the Ottoman rule, the government did not object to the dwelling of the Jews in its territories, but they objected to their migration from other countries to their regions, and heading specifically to Palestine. Ever since the beginning, the “Sublime Porte” issued instructions to its consuls to inform the Jews, desiring to migrate to Palestine, that they were not allowed to settle in Palestine as foreigners, and that they should acquire the Ottoman nationality, and abide by the enforced regulations in the provinces, where they wanted to reside. But despite the official stance of the Ottoman government, there was a noticeable increase in the Zionist settlement activity in Palestine, which occurred through twisted means, and through the support of the foreign consuls to them, and by giving bribes to the Ottoman government employees, who succumbed in some cases to the continuous pressure and insistence. In addition to this, the Jews’ endeavors in buying lands, and establishing settlements, did not wane for a day. History mentions that with the increase of the Zionist settlement movement, and the attempts to take over lands by all means, whether legitimate or not, the Arabic resistance movement started to grow, especially among the peasant and Bedouin, who fought against such settlements arising over their land, and forcing them out of it. Such resistance intensified till it pervaded most of the villages and cities, and the objection of people to this activity was conveyed to the Turkish Parliament through the Palestinian leaders, moreover, there was an intense attack on part of the opposition party for not putting an end to such practices. Nevertheless, the Zionist political power continued to augment, and the Zionist settling was further reinforced during the “Second Migration” in 1904-1914. All this can be traced to the corruption of the Ottoman administration during that time, and the connivance of some of the Masonic Ottomans and the Jews of Donma with the Zionist targets, in addition to the support of the consuls of the foreign countries to such acts.
 
British Mandate
The pre-British Mandate period

The Zionist movement that prevailed among the European Jews arose in the late nineteenth century, the word Zionism is derived from the Hebrew word “ציון, Tziyyon”, which is the name of a mount situated at the southern west of Jerusalem, which the Jews call “Zion”. The Jews go on pilgrimage to this place, as they believe that King David (peace be upon him) is buried there. It is known that the Jews during that period and before it were no more than groups scattered all over the world, sharing no political, economic, social, or patrimonial ties, only the religious link is what binds them together, and this is owing to the melting away of these groups in the societies they lived in. Moreover, the Zionist claim of the presence of a “Jewish nationality” is no more than a fabrication, because such groupings lacked the factors of nationality that form it, which are the existence of a unified nation, one territory over which they reside, common language, habits, and conventions that they all share. The notion of Zionism had grown within the European civilized climate since the sixteenth century, and it flourished under the political atmosphere that was prevalent in Europe in the Nineteenth century (the Empirical atmosphere), and specifically in the year 1870. the Zionist notion was founded on the basis of establishing a national home to the Jews in Palestine following the bargain that was concluded between the Zionist movement and the British colonization on the basis of Balfour declaration in the year 1917.

When the British troops succeeded in entering the countries by means of deception, they were received warmly as being liberating rather than occupying troops, but then after the arrival of the Zionist Committee, the Arab discerned the danger lurking to them, where the British government consented on sending such committee to Palestine so that “it accomplishes any steps that are exigent for the execution of the government‘s declaration concerning the establishment of a national home to the Jewish people in Palestine under the authority of the British General, and at the same time quieting the doubts of the Arab concerning the real Zionist intentions.”

In addition to this, the occupying military administration worked on preparing Palestine gradually to become a national home to the Zionists with all possible means and ways. What has occurred following the arrival of the Zionist Committee is considered a matter hard to believe, which was the establishment of a national country to the Jews in a country with more than 92% of its population from the Palestinian Arab.

The British Mandate in Palestine: 1923-1948

At the outset of this period Britain had undertaken the mandate act over Palestine to govern the country according to the League of Nations’ Covenant, although Britain did not need to start executing the terms of the act, because it was already practicing its control over Palestine years before the issuing of this mandate, and that according to its Zionist colonizing policy, which was mainly based on subjugation and the power of the weapon till the year 1948. During that period the organizations in the country did not show any progress, thus the Palestinian Arabs had no other resort but to submit their complaints to the permanent Mandate committee in Geneva, but this Committee had no authorization to carry out inspections and follow-up in the mandated countries. Thus the Arab Citizens had no other resort all during the British mandate period but to protest,
 
resist, and stage demonstrations, in addition to mutiny and civil disobedience, which resulted in severe clashes with the British troops and the Jewish settlers on one side and the Palestinians on the other. In the year 1924, the High Commissioner Herbert Samuel drafted a new Palestinian monetary project, and on February 1927 an act of the Palestinian currency was issued, But the people accused the government that it could not coin whatever it wanted without control because that would harm the Arab economy. In addition to this, the efforts of the High Commissioner was fruitful in issuing the Palestinian nationality act, according to it the settled Jews were granted the Palestinian nationality. During two consecutive rounds of the session of the League of Nations (1924-1925), the British government stated plainly that it did not consent to the establishment of a legislative council in Palestine that would be based on proportional representation, where the Palestinian Arab could have in it the sweeping majority, which in turn could obstruct the mission that the government had shouldered in securing a national home to the Jews. After the termination of the service of the High Commissioner Herbert Samuel, Lord Hebert Charles Blumer was appointed as High Commissioner on Palestine on August 1925, where he stayed in this post for three years.

•	In March 1925, Balfour visited Jerusalem to participate in the inauguration of a Hebrew University, which was erected on the Arab land, over Al-Zytoun Mount that the British authorities had usurped from its owners by force, and gave to the Zionists in 1918. Upon such a visit, huge demonstration were staged and Palestine declared a general strike against Balfour’s visit and huge demonstrations were staged against him, which forced the British authorities to make Balfour depart to Beirut, where he embarked on a ship bound directly for his home country. It is recorded that during the first ten years of the British Mandate, around 76400 Jewish immigrants entered Palestine, most of them were from countries of eastern Europe. With the continuous increase in the emigration activity, the Arabs felt the necessity to resist the Zionist acts, and the bias of the authorities to it. Thus revolution erupted, which was triggered by Al-Buraq accident in September 1928, where the Jews attempted to lay hands on the western wall of Al-Aqsa Mosque, which belongs to the Muslims, such an act resulted in rallying Arabic support to the Palestinian issue in the Arabic regions, and was the beginning of what came to be known as the Buraq revolution that witnessed bloody incidents, where the Arabs started attacking the Jewish districts in Al-Khalil (Hebron), Nablus, Bysan, and Safad. Thereupon, the British troops rose to the defense of the Jews, using their air force, infantry forces, and armored-clad warships, inflicting the severest means of repression against the Arabic protesters, who turned to the Egyptian forces for help. They destroyed villages, like Deir Yassin, Lifta, and others. More than thousand persons were put on trial, most of whom were from the Arab, 26 persons were sentenced to death, among whom 25 Arab and only one Jew. In the year 1930, the number of Jewish immigrants reached 104.750, and in the next six years it reached 284.645, which meant an increase that amounted to 164%; although this number does not comprise those who entered the country through illegal ways. In the eve of the anniversary of Al-Isra’ (the Night Journey)1 and Al-Mi’raj (the Ascension to Heaven)2 in December 1931, an Islamic conference was held, which was

1	The miraculous night journey during which the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, was taken from Al-Masjid Al-Harâm (at Mecca) to the farthest Masjid (in Jerusalem).

2	The miraculous ascension of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, from Jerusalem to the Heavens to meet his Lord.
 
attended by representatives from twenty-two Islamic countries, and a group of public figures in the Arabic world. During the opening of the conference the Mufti, Muhammad Amin Al-Hussainy, stressed on the importance of Palestine and Al-Aqsa to the Islamic world. In addition, the conference affirmed its denunciation of Zionism, the British policy adopted in Palestine, and the emigration of the Jews to it. The conference came out with a decision to establish an Islamic University in Jerusalem, boycotting all Jewish products in the Islamic regions, and establishing an agricultural company in Palestine to rescue the lands of the Muslims.

•	In July 1931, a formal statement was issued, appointing General Arthur Grenfell Wauchope as High Commissioner in Palestine. Wauchope arrived at Palestine carrying with him instructions to reinforce the issue of establishing a national home to the Jews, employing stalling and delaying tactics against Arab demands, together with increasing the Jewish population to be the majority in Palestine, while proposing to the Arabs false projects to distract them.

•	In August 1932, a declaration of establishing the Independence Party was issued, which pledged to strive against colonization, fight the Jewish emigration, and work on achieving Arab unity. The independents repeated their rejection of Balfour Declaration and the British Mandate, they disclosed the existing coalition between Zionism and the British colonization, in addition to this, they affirmed that one-third of the country‘s budget was designated to security and defense matters, because of the government‘s endeavors to build a foreign national home against the Palestinians will.

•	At the beginning of the year 1932, a conference for the Palestinian youths was held in Yafah to discuss recruiting them in the service of the National Movement.


•	By the end of the year 1934, according to Bill Committee, the number of Jewish immigrants reached around 42.359 compared to 30327 in the year 1933, and 9553 in the year 1932.

•	And by the end of the year 1935 the number of Jewish immigrants reached 61854, who came to Palestine from all over Europe. Moreover, the official statistics indicated that by the advent of the year 1935, the number of Jews in Palestine became twice as much as it was in 1929, thus the Jews represented one- fourth of the total census of the country.


Sheikh Eiz Al-Din Al-Qasam Revolution

The British Mandate realized how critical the situation was in Palestine, when the country witnessed the revolution of Sheikh Eiz Al-Din Al-Qasam, who dedicated himself together with a group of mujahideen to defend the land of Palestine. He won martyrdom in Jenin, after a military combat with the British Mandate army. Directly after this incident, Britain commanded its High Commissioner Wauchope, after one month


 
following the martyrdom of Al-Qasam, to put forward the project of the Legislative Council before the Arabs and the Jews, in response to the requests presented by the Palestinian political parties board in November, the project stated the following:

1.	The offer made by the government in December 1935 concerning the draft of the new constitution represented a practical step towards democratic ruling, when it suggested a legislative council with an unofficial large majority.
2.	Concerning the selling of lands, the government decided to pass a law that prohibited selling lands, except if the Arabic owner kept a piece of land that suffices him and his family.
3.	The rate of Jewish emigration was calculated minutely according to the capacity of the country, a new statistical office was established to assess such rate.

The Great 1936 Revolution and the Division Project
In February 1936, revolution erupted following a small incident, which was the spark that flared the emotions of the Arabs of Palestine, where they expressed their inability to tolerate anything more. The revolution started when a Jewish contractor refused to hire any Arabic laborer in the construction of three schools in Yafah, which he agreed with the government to build. As a consequence, the Arabic laborers congregated at the school location, and prevented the Jewish laborers from reaching the working area. In 15 April, a Jew was killed and another was seriously injured, thereupon the Jews retaliated by slaughtering Arabic peasants inside their houses, which was the spark that set the fire, as violence escalated, and tension heightened all over Palestine, claiming many lives and causing lots of causalities in both sides. On the other hand, the interception of the British army to subdue the Arabic demonstrations, caused many causalities and death amongst Arabs. A general strike was declared all over Palestine, and the national resistance movement increased, where it became organized into groups, centrally fortified on mountains, then many volunteers joined them from east of Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq. Thus the resisting groups turned into an armed national revolution backed up by all classes. The Revolution employed many ways of struggling like destroying bridges, exploding railways and oil pipes, in addition to attacking the military barracks, and bombarding locations for the British army. On the other side, the British troops used in many cases warplanes, armor, and artillery to quell and subdue this revolution, which only intensified people’s revolt.

Meanwhile, there were endeavors on the part of Arabic countries to mediate between the Supreme Arab Committee and the British government, where a joint call was issued on the part of king Bin Sa’aud, king Ghazi, and prince Abdullah on 10th of October to the head of the Arab Committee and to the Arabs of Palestine, where they stated the following:

“We were deeply hurt by the current status in Palestine, and we in agreement with the Kings of Arabs and Prince Abdullah, call you to resort to peacefulness to stop blood shedding, depending on the good intentions of our friend, the British government, and its declared desire to achieve justice, and having confidence that we will continue exerting efforts to help you.”

As a consequence, the Supreme Arab Committee declared ending the strike, and called people to perform prayer for the souls of the martyrs, who reached two thousand Arabs.
 
The Division Project
On the 7th of June 1937, the Royal Committee headed by Lord Bill issued a report that dealt with demonstrating the point of view of both the Arab and Jew leaders, the committee recommended that the Palestinian case could not be solved, except on the basis of the suggestion of dividing Palestine, the main terms of the division project were as follows:

1.	Establishing a Jewish state that divides the northern and western part of Palestine, the state extends along the coast from Lebanon boundaries till the south of Jaffa, it includes Acre, Haifa, safad, Typerias, Nazarete and Tel Aviv. The state would will be linked with Britain by a friendship treaty and alliance.


2.	The Sacred places are to be under the British Mandate including (Jerusalem and Bethlehem), they will be linked with Jaffa through a passage including Allud, Al Ramla and Nazarete too, and the Mandate will be in charge of protecting such places.

3.	The Palestinian lands will include (the southern and eastern parts of Palestine), including the city of Jaffa till east of Jordan, it will be linked with Britain by a friendship treaty and alliance.

4.	The Jewish state is to pay a financial aid to the Arabic state, while Britain is to donate one million sterling to the Arab state.

5.	A so-called exchange of people between the Arabic and Jewish states is to take place, where the Arabs who were 325 thousand are to be transmitted from the Jewish state to the Arabic state gradually, and a land is to be prepared for them in Beersheba after accomplishing the irrigation projects.

6.	A Custom treaty is to be signed between the two states to unify taxes between them over most of the imported goods as much as possible.


As for the Jewish settlement, the areas of lands that the Zionist institutions and individuals had obtained by the year 1936 amounted to 1.200.000 sq.m., and the number of settlements multiplied, its number was estimated to be 203 settlement, thus the number of settlers increased from 30 thousand in 1927 to reach 98 thousand in 1936.

The Palestinian Arab reaction to the division resolution was to continue revolting. That resulted in the delay of passing the resolution of division. The revolution remained flared until the Second World War broke out.

On 23rd, November A38 A.C., "Malcom Macdonald", the British Minister of Colonies, gave an important speech in the Council of Commons explaining the status quo in Palestine. The statement demonstrated an understanding of the Arab attitudes and their points of view when he said, "The problem of refugees in Mid-Europe will never be settled at the expense of Palestine but should be solved in a wider field." He continued saying, "The Arab people have inhabited those countries several centuries ago, but their
 
views were not taken into consideration when Balfour Promise was declared, nor when the Deed of Mandate was formulated. The Arabs, during the ensuing twenty years of the war, have been watching that pacific invasion, which foreign people are carrying out, and from time to time they present their belief with loud protest. They have become frightened that their destiny in their country will be submitted to the domination of this new active people in the fields of economy, politics and trade. If I were an Arab I would be horrified too."

After this statement, the detainees were set free on 27th, December 1938 A.C. in order to permit Palestine and the Arabs to take part in the next London Conference. Meanwhile, Some Arab delegates from Egypt, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Yemen and East Jordan went to the conference. On 7th, February 1939, the Round Table Conference was inaugurated to be ended with disappointment, and on 17th, May 1939 A.C. the British Government issued what was known as "The White Book" including the following:
1.	Constitution:

In the tenth term it stated that "The aim of His Majesty’s government is to constitute, within ten years, an independent Palestinian government and be joined with the United Kingdom by a treaty.
2.	Immigration:

The government of His Majesty ought to allow more expansion of the Jewish national homeland through immigration making such immigration conditional on the Arabs’ approval.
3.	Territories:

Term 16 in the "White Book" stated that, "The country is to be divided into areas. In one part, land transference from Arabs to Jews is forbidden. In another part it is specified while in the third part it is open.

After the end of the Second World War, the Zionist world found out that Britain was a powerless state after war, but it had a worldly position in USA, which maintained its power and had its interests in the Middle East. So, the Zionist world doubled its political activities on the upper American levels taking into account that it was the only power capable to exercise pressure on the British government to yield for the Zionist requests. It adopted many means; the most important was the diplomatic as it depended on continuous stress by the Jewish Agency in Britain. The second means was to carry out the set strategy based on the American pressure on the British government. Thirdly it practiced stress by terrorism tactics through the escalation of terrorist operations and the infliction of painful strikes on the Mandate administration.

The Zionist establishment and the Jewish agency effectively persisted in carrying out what they desired. So they tried to win the American Leadership including the American President "Hary Truman" who no sooner had he resided in the White House than he dispatched a message to the British Prime Minister "Churchil" on 24th July 1945. Also, the new British Prime Minister "Atly" was requested in a message forwarded to him on 31st August 1945, to let (100.000) Jews enter Palestine.

In reply to the American message, Britain proposed on 19th October 1945 A.C. that
U.S.A. would share with it the responsibility of planning Palestine Policy through the formation of An Anglo-American Inquiry Committee to study the Palestinian problem.
 
The Division Resolution:
In September 1947, A.C, a UN Committee was formed based on a request by the British government, called "UNSCOP" UNITED NATIONS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
PALESTINE. The committee comprised eleven members excluding the permanent five great states in Security Council alleging that their participation would lead to a biased report. The eleven members were selected from Australia, Sweden, Canada, India, Czechoslovakia, Iran, Holland, Guatemala, Peru, Uruguay and Yugoslavia. The Swedish judge, "Imil Sandostrome" was appointed a chairman of it. He had to submit, in September, a comprehensive report to solve the problem according to the committee's proposals.

The Arabs protested on sending another committee to Palestine, so, they voted against the resolution. The formation of the committee was apparently biased against Arabs because some of its members were either pro-Zionist or subordinates to American influence.

The committee finalized its report on 31st, August 1947 A.C. and forwarded it to the UN General Assembly. The report contained eleven recommendations.

The division resolution calls for:

Dividing Palestine into an Arab state and a Jewish one. A part of it will be under the international mandate, administered by the United Nations. About 56% of it, should be to the Jews.

The two states will be independent after a two-year interim period, starting on the first of September 1947 A.C., approving the constitution for each of them, signing an economical treaty, establishing an economic union, unifying the customs tariffs and the currency.

Also, the division resolution stipulates the organization of the Jewish immigration.

After exposing those recommendations, the High Arab board had already declared its refusal of those plans. The next day of publishing the report, "Golda Mayerson", the representative of the Jewish Agency expressed implicitly her acceptance of the most major parts of the project.

-	Arabs, in general and Palestinians in particular expressed their absolute resentment of this project. All Arab peoples expressed their resentment by staging demonstrations in Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon and in most Arab countries.

-	Accordingly, the political committee of the Arab league decided to meet in Soufar in Lebanon on 6th, September so that they would study the context of the committee's report and subsequently, take a unified Arab political action.

As a result of the meeting, the following decisions were taken:

1.	The political committee maintained that the execution of those proposals constituted an actual danger, which threatened peace and security in Palestine and
 
the Arab countries. Therefore, it had decided to resist, by all effective means, so as to prevent the execution of those proposals.


2.	The political committee maintained that it should disclose to all Arab people the real dangers facing the case of Palestine. Therefore, it called upon every Arab to offer all that he can from help and sacrifice.


3.	The political committee had decided to notify the governments of USA and Britain, that any decision taken, regarding Palestine Problem, without stating the establishment of an independent Arab State, would prognosticate dangerous disorders in the Middle East.


4.	The committee had decided to request the states of the league to offer the most urgent possible aid for the Palestinians, like money, arms and men.


•	Due to the division resolution, Palestinian Arabs started resisting the Zionist settling activities, with the Arab support. This resistance extended to spread all over the country, where severe battles broke out during which all weapons were used, thus claiming many lives.

•	Due to those dangerous turmoil, the international Security Council met on 19th, March to study the serious status in Palestine. It became evident that the division plan could never be peacefully executed. So the Jews decided to thwart any attempt by the Security Council that might invalidate the division resolution. To impose the status quo policy on the United Nations, the Jewish assault in Nakhshoun' enabled them to seize the Arab Qastal village in Jerusalem province.

•	On 9th, April Abdel Qader Al Hosaini, succeeded in a strong military battle in expelling the Jews out of Qastal. He was martyred there, but soon the Jews returned after hours, taking advantage of the citizens’ preoccupation in bidding farewell to their leader. Hence they occupied the village and completely destroyed it. Under such blood thirst assailing policy, the Zionists committed "Deir Yasin" massacre, at the outskirts of Jerusalem. They broke into the village with heavy arms, slaughtered and mutilated the inhabitants. They murdered (250) Arabs, mostly women and children. The Jewish writer "John Kimy" described this horrible massacre as the most atrocious stigma in the history of Jews". He did not know then that the Jews would commit what is far more heinous.

The English were of great help to the Jews in realizing their aims. They trained them during the mandate period and provided them with arms. Moreover, when the English withdrew from any area in 1948, they handed it over to the Jews. This phase of the year 1948, ended, and it was given the name of the Catastrophe of 1948, which marked the Jews occupation of most lands of Palestine and expelling its citizens except in Gaza, West Bank and East Jerusalem. Meanwhile, the "White House" had already summoned the representative of the Jewish agency in Washington "Ilyaho Eishtein" notifying him that USA had resolved to actually recognize the independence of Israel provided that Washington should receive a request regarding this recognition.
 
On the 14th May, at six o'clock exactly, according to Washington time, the end of the British Mandate over Palestine was declared. At one minute past six, the establishment of the State of Israel was declared. At eleven minutes past six, the USA recognized the State of Israel.

Today Palestine suffers under the Zionist occupation, which deceived the world with its right in the Arabic Palestinian land, and some of the democratic countries of the world had partaken in this deception through participating in a conference, which was known as “San Remo conference”, which took place in the year 1920, where these countries decided to place Palestine under British Mandate, thus within two years Palestine became effectually under the British authority, which sent Herbert Samuel, who was a Zionist leader, as its first High Commissioner in Palestine. Hence this High Commissioner was the representative of Britain in Palestine, and at the same time, a representative of the Jews. The League of Nations issued the decree of British Mandate over Palestine in 1922, whereby the British started by this decree building a national home to the Jews in Palestine. This occurred with no consideration to the original people of this land, it happened despite them and without consulting them. Or rather it happened against their will, such was really the phony democracy, of which the colonizer brags.

Ironically, the promoter of the idea of establishing a state to the Jewish people, Theodor Herzl, who was Austrian, wrote a book called “The Jewish State” in 1896, where he suggested establishing such state in one of two places: either Argentina, or Palestine! Then he placed Uganda, the African country, as another suggestion, in addition to other countries, like Pakistan!!. This is not all, for even before Herzl, the Jewish leaders, used to hold there meetings around a table over which Uganda’s map was drawn. This African black country, which had nothing to do with the Jews, but nevertheless, it was once a target to the Zionist’s schemes.

The following track of events reveals some facts that no one can gainsay, which clearly betrays the Zionists’ hesitation in choosing between Argentine and Palestine. This information is available to any researcher on the history of Zionist movement and its conferences that were held several times:

•	In the year 1896 and after the appearance of anti-Semitism notions in Europe, Theodor Herzl suggested a solution to this problem in his book “The Jewish State”, where he Suggested founding a national home to the Jews in Argentina or Palestine.

•	In the year 1897, the first conference for the Zionist movement was held in Switzerland, which declared in its conclusion “Basel program” for occupying Palestine and establishing the International Zionist Movement.

•	In the year 1904, the fourth conference for the Zionist Movement was held, where it decided establishing a national home for the Jews in Argentina.

•	In the year 1906, the parliament of Zionist Movement decided to make the Jewish national home in Palestine.
 
•	In the year 1914, with the beginning of World War One, Britain promised the Arabs to help them gain their independence from the Ottoman rule, provided that they sided with Britain in its war against the Ottoman state. Hence Britain entered into Palestine as a liberating force, but such was the biggest fraud that the Palestinians were subject to in their history, because it had changed their future indefinitely.

•	In the year 1916, The “Sykes-Picot Agreement” was signed between France and Britain, where they agreed on dividing the Arab region into spheres of control and influence. Accordingly, it was decided to place Lebanon and Syria under the French control, while Jordan and Iraq under the British control, provided that Palestine remained a small country.

•		In November 1917, the British government issued “Balfour Declaration” in the form of a letter from its Minister of External Affairs “James Arthur Balfour” to the leader of the Zionist Movement. Whereby the Minister of External Affairs pledged that the Government of His Majesty would do its best for the sake of establishing a national home to the Jews in Palestine, following is the text of the Letter:

The Balfour Declaration Dear Lord Rithchild,
I have much pleasure in conveying to you, on behalf of His Majesty's Government, the following declaration of sympathy with Jewish Zionist aspirations which has been submitted to, and approved by, the Cabinet.

His Majesty's Government view with favor the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, and will use their best endeavors to facilitate the achievement of this object, it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country.
I should be grateful if you would bring this declaration to the knowledge of the Zionist Federation.
Signed: Arthur James Balfour"

This was the letter sent by the British Minister of External Affairs to the leader of the Zionist Movement; what attracts attention in the context of the letter is a sentence that constitutes a clear admission from this minister that this land belongs to the Palestinians alone, the sentence is:

" His Majesty's Government view with favor the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people"

In this sentence the British minister promises to establish a new state to the Jews in Palestine!!! What more can be said to prove that Israel did not exist at that time, and that the Arabic land that is currently the center of conflict, belongs to the Palestinians and not the Israelis, who are actually intruders into this region, and who have nothing to bind them to this sacred land except their greed.
 
There are many proofs that make those who attempt to conceal it look ridiculous. Among such simple and convincing proofs that disclose the fragility of the pretexts on which the Zionist entity is based, and expose the lie that Palestine is a Jewish land, is the rulers of this entity itself. Verily, the presidents of this intruding entity are themselves an evidence that Palestine is Arabic, and that the Israelis are outsiders and colonizers, who came to usurp this pure land. Since the establishment of Israel on 14th May 1948 till the year 1996, it was ruled by 26 governments, with 8 presidents, who were the oldest and the first to rule over Israel. The following table, whose data were compiled from different resources that deal with the autobiography of those governors, shows the real names, dates, and birthplaces, in addition to stating their ages when they first entered the land of Palestine:

Prime Minister	Birth Date	Birthplace	Year of entering Palestine	Age at entering Palestine
David
Ben_Gurion	1886	Poland	1906	20 years
M. Sharett	1854	South Russia	1905	12 years
Levi Eshkol	1895	Ukraine	1914	19 years
Golda Meir	1898	Kyiv - Ukraine	1921	23 years
Yitzhak Rabin	1922	Jerusalem	–	–
Menachem Begin	1913	Russia	1942	29 years
Yitzhak Shamir	1915	Poland	1935	20 years
Shimon Peres	1923	Poland	1934	11 years


This table demonstrates how the Zionist entity was erected on a lie that the land of Palestine belongs for the Jews. The Zionist organizations had spread before the establishment of the state of Israel a famous racial phrase, which says “A land with no people, to people with no land”. Thus they implicitly admitted that they own no land by saying “people with no land”, but they lied when they said that “Palestine is a land with no people”, because it was and still is the land of strife, and a land that is imbued with the scent of history and civilization, it is the land of the Palestinians alone, they had never left it. History testifies that they had defended this land with their blood to ward off the invaders, like the Crusaders, Mongols, Tatar, and other colonizers. The previous table shows the ages of the Israeli presidents when they entered Palestine for the first time in their lives, the youngest among them was 11 years old, who was “Shimon Perez”, who entered Palestine for the first time in 1934, coming from Poland, where he lived there for 11 years, and got used to a different European style of living than that of the Arabic Palestine. As for Menachem Begin, he entered Palestine for the first time at the age of 29, thus he came with a different style of living than that of the Palestinians, he came from Russia to Palestine as a Jewish immigrant just like thousands of his sort, who came from all over the world.

But the question that strongly poses itself clearly is: how did the Zionists succeed in hiding the truth and filling Palestine with the Jews? How did the Jews arrive at Palestine from all over the world so easily, despite the strong Arabic objection? How did the Palestinian ownership of the land devolve from the real possessors to strangers, who
 
gradually extended their dominion over the whole of Palestine, where they established a new state that is alien to the real inhabitants in all aspects?

Here appears the dangerous and significant role that the Jewish emigration had played in manipulating the destinies of the Palestinian people and expelling them out of their land, and occupying it till this day. For this immigration was the first lethal weapon that the Jews used against the owner of the land, where they imposed on Palestine a demographic majority that consequently enabled them to dominate the country. Out of this concept, many of the Palestinian resisters regard that there is no such thing called Israeli civilians, they are all soldiers, who should be fought, and that by considering that the first weapon that the Jews used was the demographic one, by means of imposing a Jewish majority in Palestine.

Jewish emigration to Palestine
•	Emigration before the establishment of Israel

Palestine that sacred and pure land is distinguished by its importance and its high reverence in the eyes of Muslims, owing to its embracement of Al-Aqsa Masjid, the first of the two Qiblah in Islam [Direction faced in prayer], towards which the Muslims used to direct their faces during praying before the Ka’bah in Makkah became their Qiblah. No Muslim anywhere would accept or consent to the Jews’ control over the sanctities of Muslims, and over such sacred land, how about if such an enemy was implanted by force and ruse inside the Arabic Palestinian land? This would constitute a provocation, before which no Muslim can stand still and acquiesce. Today we witness how Jewish extremists groups threaten to demolish Al-Aqsa Masjid, which would bring about a real catastrophe. The organized Jewish emigration from all over the world towards Palestine constituted a main pillar to the success of the Zionist project in Palestine, for the Zionist organizations and institutions that came to the scene of events following the first Zionist conference worked with all their might to finance the Jewish sneaking into the Palestinian lands, by preparing circumstances and exploiting them to drive the Jews out of their native countries around the world, and attract them to Palestine, which was the destination of establishing the Hebrew state over its soil.

In the year 1869, as a result of pressures exerted by the European countries over the Ottoman State, due to its piled up debts and its weakness, the latter issued a law, that allowed the foreigners, whether they were individuals, institutions, or companies to have properties, and in all lands of the State, whether inside cities or outside them. Thus such permission to the foreigners to possess lands in Palestine was a source of anxiety to the peasants and the people of the country, because it was the offset to the Jewish infiltration and the buying of lands under the foreign protection and prerogatives. The Zionist greed in buying lands started, where they began to tempt the peasants and big feudal lords from the foreigners to sell their lands, the peasants began to feel worried about the fate of their lands and lives. The Palestinian National Information Center states that in the year 1837 the first Jewish settlement was established in Palestine by the help of the wealthy British Jew Montfort, where the number of inhabitants was then 1500 Jews, then the number of immigrants increased to reach 10 thousands in the year 1840, and then mounted to 15 thousands in the year 1860, and by the year 1881 the number of Jews reached 22 thousands. In the year 1882, throngs of Russian Jewish immigrants started to flock to Palestine, despite the issuance of the Ottoman authorities to a law that restricted emigration, the first Jewish group that arrived at Palestine was 2000, then this number increased till it reached 25 thousands Jews in the year 1903.
 
The Jewish settlements in Palestine constituted the core of the Zionist infiltration into the country, and that through the selling of the foreign owners and non-Palestinian Arabs to their lands to the Jewish immigrants, hence the number of Jewish settlements that were built at the end of the Ottoman Rule since 1882 till 1913 reached 24 settlements in Palestine, which Doctor Mostafa Al Dabbagh mentioned in the book (Biladona Falastin) “Palestine Our Country “ – the first part, first section, Al-taliaa publishing house, Beirut 1965, he dealt with such point exhaustively, and mentioned the date of building of each settlement and the number of its population. As for the British Mandate period, the British founded 253 settlements between the years 1920 till 1948, also Doctor Hind Amin Al-Badiry has given full details about the date each settlement was established and the number of its inhabitants in her research “Palestinian lands” Arab League publications, 1981, she clarified in the same research how the Jews had taken over the Palestinian lands till 1947, and that through the following table:

The way of possession	Its percentage from the total Area of Palestine	(Land area seized by the Jews) in Dunnum
Ottoman period and the outset of the British
Military Regime	%1.55	420.00
Palestine Government
rented it to the Jews	%0.64	175.000
Government granted it to
the Jewish Agency	%1.20	325.000
Sold by big non-
Palestinian Absent owners	%2.31	625.000
Sold by big Palestinian
owners	%0.96	261.400
Total	%6.6	7.000

This table reveals the very small percentage of the lands that the Jewish immigrants took hold of since their entrance to Palestine till the year 1947, and that compared to those lands that were still under the Palestinians’ possession, this is attributed to the fact that the Jews were newcomers to Palestine, and hence had few properties there. Consequently, they couldn’t take hold of no more than 6.6% of the lands.

By the end of World War One, and the defeat of the Ottoman state, which marked the downfall of an empire that extended for several centuries, Palestine fell under the British Mandate, where it appointed High Commissioners there to manage the affairs of Palestine. Doctor Hind Amin Al-Badiry, the researcher, and member in Palestinian Writers and Journalists Union, holder of B.A., History department, Damascus University in Syria, and holder of M.A. and Ph.D from Ain Shams university, Cairo, affirms in the historical magazine “Al-Fustat” that in the period of the rule of the British High Commissioner Herbert Samuel, who was Jewish, new laws were issued, while other Ottoman laws were changed in such a way as to facilitate the transfer of ownership of lands to the Jews. The doctor affirms this by saying: “In the year 1920, the administration of Samuel worked persistently and actively to carry out the plans of the Zionist Committee, thus the first step it took was to inaugurate departments to record lands, and
 
appointed the Zionist Norman Bentwich in charge of them. In the same year the dangerous area law was passed, which Bentwich worked on immediately putting it into practice, in order to confiscate lands. As a consequence to this, the Ottoman Bank closed its doors (which was the sole bank that lent the peasants at small interests). He then imposed high taxes on people, to the extent that even the peasants, whose revenues were lower than any other class, used to pay the highest tax rates. In addition to this, authorities changed laws, in a way that turned things upside down, all this with the aim of cloaking the process of usurping lands under the pretenses of legitimacy and in the name of law, thus many unjust laws were passed to serve this aim. When the authorities imported products similar to what the people cultivate, they faced a deadlock, and many of them were ruined, owing to their continuous bankruptcy and the piling up of debts, the percentage of inability to pay taxes among them reached 75%, not to mention the harassment, persecution, imprisonment, public fees, and the collective punishment that were practiced against them. Moreover the Jewish Usurers (the only lending body that remained after the closing of the Ottoman bank) played a role in driving the peasants to bankruptcy, where the rate of interests over the debts reached 200%, which led to the forfeiture of the mortgaged lands in payment of the debts, as they were sold in a public auctions. These lands in specific are what Zionism exploited to propagate that the Arabs sold their lands, in addition to lands sold by the big Arab landlords, which is extremely small, and doesn’t exceed 1%).” All the succeeding High Commissioners followed in the footsteps of Herbert Samuel. Yediot Ahronot press had published in its issue dated 14/7/1972 an article entitled “Blunder, Naivety, and Coloring” written by the ex-Knesset member “Yash’yho Ben-Fort”, where he justified this racial and vicious way of stealing lands from its owners by saying: “The truth is that there can never be Zionism without settlement, and there can never be a Zionist state without expelling the Arabs, confiscating their lands, and fencing it.”

As a result of all these circumstances, the process of Jews’ immigration to the Palestinian lands was facilitated, and their number increased, owing to the preservation of the emigration flow since 1850, namely at the end of the Ottoman period as shown in the following table:


The Period	Total of Jewish immigrants in thousands	Annuel average of Jewish
immigration in thousands
1850-1880	25	0.8
1881-1903	25	1
1904-1910	20	2.9
1911-1914	14	3.5
Total	83	1.3

The table shows clearly the continuity of the immigration flow, without any interruption, which reveals that this immigration was organized and had specific purposes, we know and touch its repercussions today represented in the domination of the land of Palestine and the establishment of an extraneous state that is known as Israel. The Palestinian National Information Center cites this table that is found on its site, where it states that the Palestinian lands subject to five consecutive Jewish immigration flows, following the successive crises that occurred since the late 19th century till World War II in the areas
 
where the Jews existed. The center has divided the immigration process into the following phases:

1.	The First Immigration 1882 – 1903: It occurred in two groups, where around 25 thousands Jews came to Palestine, most of them coming from Romania and Russia. The immigration was financed by Lovers of Zion societies and BILU movement, in addition to some of the colonizing figures and British organizations.
2.	The Second Immigration 1904 – 1918: This immigration occurred following the establishment of the Zionism movement. The number of immigrants reached around 40 thousands most of them coming from Russia and Romania, they were mainly from adventurous youngsters, who were recruited by the Zionist and colonizing organizations. By the end of the Second immigration flow, and due to the breaking out of World War One in 1914, the number of immigrants reached around 85 thousands Jews, and the number of lands they possessed reached 418 thousands dunnum, and around 44 agricultural settlements.
3.	The Third Immigration 1919 – 1923: During this phase the number of immigrants reached 35 thousand Jews, at the rate of 8 thousands immigrants annually, most of them coming from Russia, Romania, and Poland, in addition to small numbers from Germany and America.
4.	The Fourth Immigration 1924 – 1932: This phase started during the British Mandate, where 80 thousands immigrants had flocked to Palestine most of them from the middle class, especially from Poland, they exploited the small sum of money they brought with them in making small projects of their own.

The Zionist immigration reached its peak in 1925, where around 33 thousands Jews had arrived at Palestine, compared to 13 thousands in 1924. Afterwards, the number started to decrease once more till it reached 13 thousands in 1926. The number of immigrants continued to recede in 1927, owing to the economic hardships that the country was then facing, thus their number decreased to three thousands and then to only two thousands in 1928. Hence by the end of this phase, the total number of Jews, who arrived at Palestine reached around 175 thousands, of which 136 thousands among them settled in 19 civil settlements, as for the rest, they spread in 110 agricultural settlements.

The Fifth Immigration 1933 – 1939:The number of immigrants flocking to Palestine reached during that phase around 215 thousands, most of them coming from Mid- Europe, which was affected by the Nazi Seizure of Power, thus during that period about 45 thousands Jewish immigrants set towards Palestine from Mid-Europe alone. In the year 1928 the percentage of Jews immigrating from Germany to Palestine reached 52% of the total immigrating Jews. In the year 1933, “The White Book” was issued, because of it, Britain limited the Jewish immigration to 75 thousands within the coming five years; thus minimizing as much as possible the huge number of immigrants traveling through official means, while it opened the doors to unofficial immigration, thus the number of immigrants reached its peak in 1935, where they reached a total of 62 thousands, then it started to decline owing to the eruption of revolution in Palestine in the year 1936, as the Palestinians could no more tolerate, and stand still in the face of the waves of immigrations that their lands were subjected to.

Doctor Muhammad Salamah Al-Nahal, expatiates on this subject in his book “The Policy of British Mandate in The Arabic Palestinian Lands” – Occupied Palestine publications, second edition-Beirut, page 74, 75, 76, where he clarifies the number of Jews immigrating
 
to Palestine through the following tables, which carry the numbers: 1, 2, 3, 4, the following table shows details about such exodus during the years (1920-1936):

Table 1
Year	Number of Immigrants	Percentage
1920	5514	1.95
1921	9149	3.24
1922	7844	2.77
1923	7421	2.63
1924	12856	4.55
1925	33801	11.96
1926	13081	4.63
1927	2713	0.96
1928	2178	0.77
1929	5249	1.86
1930	4944	1.75
1931	4075	1.44
1932	9553	3.38
1933	30327	10.73
1934	42359	14.98
1935	61854	21.88
1936	29727	10.52
Total	282.645	100%

Doctor Riyad Al-A’ylah mentioned in his research entitled “The Development of the Palestinian Issue” (Historically, socially, and politically)second edition-May 1998, that during World War II, around 55 thousands Jews arrived to Palestine through illegal ways, where the British fleet was charged with guiding the ships carrying on board the immigrating Jews, in addition to supplying them with water, provision, and fuel till they reached the Palestinian shores. Moreover, between the years 1940-1948 around 120 thousands Jews entered the country, and with the winding up of the British Mandate period the number of Jews reached 625 thousands, in other word their number was equal to third the country’s population.

The following table, which is quoted from the same source as the pervious table, shows the percentage of the Arabs and Jews population in Palestine during the years 1918-1948.

Table 2
Percentage of Jews	Percentage of Arab Citizens	Year
7.20%	92.80%	1918
14.67	85.33	1925
 
16.90	83.10	1931
20.90	79.41	1933
27.15	72.85	1935
30.1	69.99	1940
31.40	68.60	1946
31.48	68.52	1948

This table clearly shows the increase in the number of Jews from 7,20% in the year 1918 to 31,48% in the year 1948. Such huge increase in the number of Jews flocking to Palestine from all over the world in a period of 30 years only, would certainly result in a gradual shifting of the balance of power in favor of those intruders, who were new to this place, coming from all over the world, after their hesitation in choosing the country on whose lands they would erect their alien and occupying entity, as Argentina constituted a choice to them, for it constituted at the beginning a target of their greedy goals, but they finally chose Palestine, whose people drained by wars, were aspiring to freedom, peace, and security, but they were instead faced with depression, subjugation, pain and rage, from which the Palestinians and the Arabs suffer till this very day.

The following table clarifies the countries from where those intruders had come, from the years 1919 till 1936:

Table 3
Country	Number of Immigrants	Percentage
Poland	124.010	42.80
Russia	30.429	10.50
Germany	28.629	9.89
Romania	14.754	5.10
Lithuania	9.305	3.22
Yemen and Eden	8.529	2.95
USA	7.674	2.65
Greece	6.516	2.25
Iraq	6.122	2.11
Latvia	4.546	1.57
Turkey	4.016	1.39
Czechoslovakia	3.748	1.29
Austria	3.690	1.27
Iran	3.047	1.05
Other countries	34.583	11.96
Total	289.616	100%
 
Immigration after the Creation of Israel 1948-1967:

By usurping Palestine and by declaring the creation of Israel in 1948 and the expulsion of the Palestinian Arabs from their own land and country, Zionism started to exert mighty efforts in facilitating the immigration of the Jews to Palestine and it issued what is known as the law of “Return” that was ratified in 1950 and dictated that every Jew has the right to return to the country as a returning Jew. Immigration was carried through an immigrant visa. Also the law of Israeli nationality was issued in 1952 whereby every Jewish citizen, who immigrated to Israel, has the right to obtain the Israeli identity once he enters the country, all this besides boosting the immigration by the Jewish agency and organizing it and the attention paid to the immigrants affairs upon their arrival in the country which increased immigration. The following table discusses the Jewish immigration to Palestine during the years 1948-1967, obtained from the same source of the three previous tables, i.e. from a study conducted by Muhammad Salamah Al-Nahal:

Table 4

Year	Immigrants Number
1948	101.828
1949	239.576
1950	170.249
1951	175.095
1952	24.369
1953	11.326
1954	18.370
1955	37.478
1956	56.234
1957	71.224
1958	27.082
1959	23.895
1960	24.510
1961	47.638
1962	61.328
1963	64.364
1964	54.716
1965	30.736
1966	15.730
1967	14.327

The following points are noticed from the previous table:
 
First: the increase of the number of the immigrating Jews to Palestine during the first four years of the establishment of the state of the Zionist entity; about 700 000 immigrants entered during this period, whereas the number of the Jews in Palestine amounted to 650 000 person approximately in 1948. The reasons that caused this increase in the Jewish immigration are as follows:

1-	The Zionist Organizations transfer of the Jews who remained in the refugee camps in Western Europe to Palestine after the Second World War.

2-	The negotiations that the Israeli government has conducted with the Romanian government in 1948 and led to the arrival of about 118 000 Romanian immigrants during the four years 1948-1951.

3-	Zionist exploitation of twisted and terrorist schemes to realize its targets of immigration and especially in the countries of the Middle East, particularly in Yemen, Iraq and Libya where the Jews carried out bombings in Jewish districts to arouse terror, and hence demand from them to immigrate to Palestine to rid themselves of terrorism, which shapes an understanding of the roots of Zionist terrorism since the first of the last century where they killed their fellow countrymen to force them to go to Palestine.

Second: the decrease of the number of immigrants during the next three years 1952-1945 because of the economic crisis that erupted in the country, caused by the increase of the number of immigrants and the outbreak of unemployment.

Third: continuity of immigration redoubled, compared with the previous period during the three years (1955-1957) and its connection with Hungarian events and the economic status in the country because of the tripartite attack on Egypt and Gaza Strip.

Fourth: the obvious decrease of the number of immigrants after 1957 as a result of the cessation of immigration from north Africa and Egypt, where the Arab governments in Morocco, Tunisia and Egypt encouraged the Jews to stay in the country through providing favorable living conditions and security, especially after the Anglo-French Attack on the Suez Canal, which has put an end to the Zionist agents and the terrorist acts they executed.

Fifth: the increase of the number of immigrants from 1961 until their rate reached 50 000 immigrants annually, which happened during the years from 1961 to 1965.

Based on an Israeli source, namely the statistical Abstract of Israel, No.45(1994),p.43, the following table clarifies the numbers and the percent of immigrants to Palestine depending on the continent of birth, 1882-1993 (percentages):


Immigration Period	
Immigrants Number	
%	From Asia and Africa	From Europe and America
1882-1914	55.000-70.000	100		
1919-1948	482.857	100	10.4	89.6
15\May 1948-1993	2.363.481	100	35.3	64.7
15\May 1948-1951	687.624	100	49.9	50.1
 
1952-1954	54.676	100	76.4	23.6
1955-1957	166.492	100	68.3	31.7
1958-1960	75.970	100	36.0	64.0
1961-1964	228.793	100	59.4	40.6
1965-1968	82.244	100	49.7	50.3
1969-1971	116.791	100	27.3	72.7
1972-1974	142.755	100	9.2	90.8
1975-1979	124.827	100	14.3	85.7
1980-1984	83.637	100	27.1	72.9
1985-1989	70.196	100	20.4	79.6
1990	199.516	100	2.7	97.3
1991	176.100	100	11.9	88.1
1992	77.057	100	6.5	93.5
1993	76.805	100	4.1	95.9

This table illustrates the continuation of the surge of the Jewish immigration from different continents and demonstrates the gradual rise of the number of immigrants since the beginning of the twentieth century, where the number of immigrants did not exceed 55000 immigrants then we find it escalating in 1955 to 166000 immigrants, then in 1990 to 199000 immigrants. This rising wave of the Jewish immigration to Palestine had toppled the balance of power and deepened the disparities in Palestine between the intruders and the genuine landowners, where it had imposed a Jewish prevalence and consequently their mastery over Palestine.

The following table, taken from the general Israeli guide – Palestinian Studies institute, Mahmmoud Miaary, population composition p. 37-89 – shows that the Jews who were born outside Palestine formed the majority of the Jews of Israel until the beginning of the seventies. Then the percent of the Jews born in Israel or Palestine before 1948 began to increase, thus composing the majority of the Jewish population of Israel (60.9% in 1993).


The inhabitants of Israel based on the country of origin

Country of Origin	Absolute No.	%
Total No.	4.335.2	100.0
Total–Asia	736.300	17.0
Turkey	86.300	2.0
Iraq	256.500	5.9
 
Yemen	158.00	3.6
Iran	134.7	3.1
Other countries

(including India and Pakistan)	
100.2	
2.3
Africa - Total	837.6	19.3
Morocco	502.8	11.6
Algeria and Tunisia	126.5	2.9
Libya	74.7	1.7
Egypt	63.0	1.4
Other countries

(including Ethiopia)	
70.6	
1.6
Europe, America and Ukraine - Total	1.730.5	39.9
Soviet Union	712.1	16.4
Poland	262.5	6.0
Romania	258.0	5.9
Bulgaria and Greece	59.9	1.4
Germany and Austria	85.0	2.0
Czechoslovakia (formerly)

Hungary and other European countries	
191.8	
4.4
North America, South America and Ocean Islands	
161.2	
3.7
Palestine\Israel-born, father also	1.030.8	23.8

In this study ascribed to the previously stated source, it becomes evident that the Israeli community is a community of immigrants or settlers, where 39.1% from the Jewish inhabitants are still born in places outside the country and 37.1% are born inside the country (Palestine or Israel) but their fathers are born outside. And that 23.8% only from the Jewish inhabitants and their fathers are born inside the country. The Jewish population has grown fast, thus it has multiplied six-fold since the establishment of Israel on 15th May 1948 until the end of the year 1993. The scale of immigration, has generally contributed to half of the population growth and the natural growth in the other half. The Palestinians in Israel, excepting the inhabitants of Al-Qods, constitute 15.4% from the total population. The Arab population has succeeded to preserve their proportion in spite of the intensified Jewish immigration, through natural population growth whose percent amounts to approximately double the percent of the natural growth of the Jews. According to “the country of origin”, defined by the Israeli statistics, i.e. based on the birthplace of the person or the birthplace of his father, the Jewish inhabitants in Israel are divided into three main ethnic groups:
 
1-Western Jews (or from western origins), born in Europe – America. 2-Native-born Jews, of foreign-born fathers in Europe – America.
3-Eastern Jews (or from eastern origins): born in Asia – Africa – and native-born Jews, descendants of foreign-born fathers in Asia – Africa.

In addition to all these figures related to immigration to Palestine, the immigration of the Russian Jews from the former Soviet Union is remarkable, for these immigrants to the occupied Palestinian territories make up 10% from the total inhabitants therein, and their influence and power steadily increase in the political life since the big immigration, that carried the biggest number of them to Israel at the late eighties and the earliest nineties. During four years (1990-1993), more than half a million citizens immigrated from the former Soviet Union to Israel, which led to 10% increase of its population. The majority among the adult immigrants were Soviet university or technological academies graduates, also the major class among them were engineers and architects. Many sources document this immigration like, American Sephardi Federation, Jewish Agency for Israel and Center Bureau of Statistics; also, Ahmad Khalifah – “The Russian immigrants in Israel”, Palestinian studies magazine, issue 38, spring 1999, p. 80 & 124. The following table summarizes the details certified by these sources:


Immigration to Israel from the former Soviet Union




Year	

Immigrants Total	Immigrants from former Soviet Union

In thousands
1986	9505	202
1987	12.965	2096
1988	13.034	2283
1989	24.000	12.932
1990	199.516	185.227
1991	176.100	147.839
1992	77.057	65.093
1993	76.805	66.196
1994	79.844	67.771
1995	76.361	64.489
1996	70.605	58.447
1997	65.962	54.521
1998	56.700	45.400
Total	938.454	772.496
 

After viewing all these figures, statistics and facts, it is now crystal-clear that the Israelis were never the owners of the Palestinian land, they are only colonizers who were backed by some subjugating forces to control the destines of the Palestinian people and turn their life into the hell we see today. It is noteworthy that the memory of the Muslim Arab populations needs none of these figures or data to realize that the Zionists are intruders, because the history of all Arab countries is common since ancient times. The sad reality is that the true landowners live under the pressure of the mightiest power in the world, to the extent that anyone who defends his country – Palestine - is labeled as a “Terrorist”. They paradoxically regard the daily slaughtering from which the Palestinians suffer as a defense of Israel when in reality is only an imperialist power. Values and standards are reversed to the extent that some people in the world defend the colonizers and usurpers against their victims whose lands are usurped forcibly and coercively by the power of arms. This biggest immigration in the history of humanity towards Palestine has clearly shown that the inhabitants of what is known today as Israel are aliens to the Arabic Palestine. Huge numbers of Jews have occupied the small lands of Palestine, so where did the remaining surviving Palestinians go after this extensive immigration to Palestine? Where did the true owners of the lands seek refuge after the foreign usurpers have occupied their land?

Expulsion of the Palestinians from their Homes

It was aforementioned that Palestine lies at the west of Asia; at the southern part of the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea and thus lies at the heart of the ancient world which made it a land bridge connecting between Asia and Africa, and between the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea. I have also indicated that Palestine totals 27.009 km² only, including Lake Tiberias and the province of Hawlah and half the area of the Dead Sea. This area is wholly inhabitable due to the presence of Lake Tiberias and half the area of the Dead Sea. The area of Palestine is very small and equals approximately 4% of Texas, which means that it is 25 times smaller than it. It also equals 15.3 % of Washington’s area and about 21 % of New York’s area, and it is hardly spacious enough for the Palestinians, so how things would be when these great multitudes immigrate to it form all over the world?

The Zionist leaders who mastered the evacuation and immigration of the Jews to Palestine perfectly knew this fact, and perfectly knew that Palestine hardly contained its people, let alone if an exodus of Jews crept to it. Therefore, these Zionist leaders decided to evacuate Palestine from the largest possible number of its native people to be occupied by incomers from all over the world. This thinking was embodied in an article by the ex-Knesset member in the Israeli newspaper Yediot Ahronot dated 14\7\1972 . The truth is that the Palestinian existence in Palestine is inherent in history and is as old as human existence in the Arab region and the proof is Ariha (Jericho), this Palestinian city, which is the most ancient city in history, more than 7000 years old. But the Israeli presence is only recent and the details of the exodus clearly exposes and bares this reality.

And just as the Zionists exercised terrorism against their own countrymen (in Iraq, Libya and Yemen) to convince them to go to Israel, after they loved their life in other countries that guarded their dignity and honor, they also exercised it against the Palestinians to force them to leave their land and evacuate it for the sake of the new incomers who caused the miseries and wars witnessed in the region to this day. These Zionist terrorist
 
acts against the Palestinians since the beginning of the last century triggered horrible massacres. The Jewish Knesset member confessed to this fact in his article published by the Israeli newspaper Yediot Ahronot, in which he considered the evacuation of Palestine from its people as “an inevitable necessity”, in order to establish their own foreign and intrusive entity upon the region. The whole world should know how the Jews entered Palestine and dominated it, and how did Israel enter the Arab region and wage wars and inflict tragedies only known by the people of the region and a minority in the world, owing to its being marginalized by political parties and media systems connected with World Zionism. The British Colonial Secretary, Malcolm MacDonald, delivered in 23 November 1938 an important testimony in the House of Commons in which he explained the present situation in Palestine. This testimony under the title “Division Project”, is considered a momentous proof on the reality of the situation in Palestine at that time. The statement expressed his understanding of the Arab position and the soundness of the Arab views.

This crucial testimony stated by the British Colonial Secretary clearly reveals the drastic psychological state that the Palestinians lived when the Jews invaded their country, after they accepted in the beginning the peaceful entry of the Jews and treated them unguardedly because they trusted them, and for their simplicity and ignorance of what these intruders harbored. Today the whole world knows what the Jews harbored then while seeing a Palestinian population homeless, whose children are killed every day. The Jews betrayed the trust shown by the Palestinians, who one day welcomed them and accepted their presence in their land. But sorrowfully found themselves under the gun of these intruders who became the rulers of the capabilities and possessions of the Palestinians, mostly found themselves just foreign refugees in adjacent countries.

The attorney Wakim Wakim, Secretary of National Committee for the Defense of the Rights of the Uprooted in Israel, said in an article published for him on the site of Women’s Committee for Supporting the Palestinian’s Right of Return: “At the time of announcing the division resolution, number 181 dated 29\11\1947, there lived in the regions under the Jewish State, in conformity with the division resolution, more than 243000 Arabs in 219 villages and four cities which are Haifa, Tiberias, Safad and Baysan. During the time between the division resolution and until June 1948, more than 239000 Arabs were driven out from this region and 180 Arab villages were evacuated and completely destroyed. Also the inhabitants of three big countries: Safad, Tiberias and Baysan were completely expelled, whereas 1950 Palestinians remained in Haifa. In the meantime the military Zionist organizations drove out about 122000 Arabs from the regions under the control of the Palestinian State and 70 villages were evacuated and completely destroyed. The people of Yafa and Akka were almost totally driven out. Furthermore, a very big part of the people of Al-Ladd and Ar-Ramlah were expelled.

Many people think that the expulsion of the Palestinians from their land concurred with the eruption of the military Zionist activities in 1948. But delving into the pages of history, which the Zionist media and ideology kept in the dark in a way unprecedented before in history, ascertains that the expulsion started, theoretically at least, with Herzl launching his book, “The Jewish State,” the Torah of Zionism. The base of establishing the Jewish state in our country Palestine meant the expulsion of all our people, or at least the majority, as the military Zionist organizations did and the state of Israel after it.

The first act of expulsion actually took place in 1905, when the Zionist settlers conspired with some feudatories from Lebanon to buy lands from the village that overlooks Al-Jalil
 
Al-Ala (Upper Galilee) and expel the peasants, who molded its soil with their sweat and blood. One of the Jewish settlers wrote at that time about the deep attachment of the peasants to their lands, saying “even their animals cried” when they were forced to leave.

Also the historical documents point to the expulsion of about 70 000 Palestinian peasants and the destruction of their villages before the eruption of war – the Disaster in 1948 – even before the final approval of the crime by the UN organization that sanctioned the resolution of dividing Palestine equally with the Jewish settlers. The total of the Palestinians who were expelled from their country exceeded 726 000 citizens, and there only remained in Palestine about 156 000 Palestinians, 40000 among them have been dislodged inside Palestine and have resorted to the neighboring villages and countries, their number exceeds today 200 000 uprooted persons. They form in some of the villages they resorted to 50% from the inhabitants or even more. The huge numbers of those dislodged and homeless people inside and outside, indisputably prove the falsity of the Zionist claim alleging that the refugees where dislodged in compliance with the demand of their leaders, taking into consideration the short period that extended between 1\12\1947 and the first of June when the terror of the armed Zionist organizations against the Palestinian inhabitants aggravated. The activity lately assumed by some new military Israeli historians, and in their lead “Benny Maurice”, proves the truthfulness of the Palestinian account that affirms that the forced expulsion operation took place in a systematic and planned method with the design of “ethnically cleansing” Palestine of its Arab inhabitants. For the forced expulsion operation was accompanied with intensive attacks of violence, terrorism and massacres that stood as one of the chief reasons behind the departure of the Arabs of Palestine. The military Israeli historian Prof. Ytzhak, the lecturer in Bar-llan University, estimated that the organized bloodbaths committed by the Israeli gangs exceeded ninety bloodbaths. These military operations were coupled with a policy of psychological warfare through leaking news about the massacres on a local scale so that the atrocities of genocide, rape, and destruction reach the hearing of the Palestinian inhabitants especially the conservative Palestinian countryside, with the aim of implanting in the souls of the inhabitants a state of horror and panic, thus they would evacuate their villages to save their souls, honor and possessions.

There is also many testimonies that affirm that most of the Palestinian border villages were besieged from three directions and bombed to force the inhabitants to escape from the fourth direction which in most cases was towards Lebanon, Syria or Jordan. The Zionist false claim that the Palestinians left their lands in 1948 in compliance with the commands of their leaders was among the Zionist false propaganda to diminish worldwide solicitude for the Palestinian people especially the refugees. The writer, Tzvi, said, “Today every descendant knows that had it not been for the collective escape in 1948 the Israeli State would not have been established, even inside the division borders specified by the UN in 1947, the more so within the truce expanded borders specified at the end of the liberation war.” As for Count Folke Bernadotte , the UN Mediator, he examined the status of two specific villages that were subjected to the unjustifiable attack of Zionist organizations and how the inhabitants were forced to evacuate the villages then they were destroyed, as stated in his report submitted to the general assembly. Also, in a study by Prof. Israel Shahak about the evacuated villages, he said, “The truth concerning the Arab villages that existed before 1948, among the lands on which the Israeli State was established, is one of the most hidden secrets in the Israeli life, for there is hardly a report or a book or a pamphlet that discusses their number or location, which is a deliberate matter in order for it to be the accepted official myth, that talks about an
 
empty country, educable in Israeli schools and can be related to visitors and tourists.” Prof. Israel Shahak has presented a list including the names of 385 villages that were destroyed and completely erased by Israel from among 475 villages that existed before 1948. During the last years many realties and documents from the Israeli army archives began to be disclosed to prove that hundreds of massacres were perpetrated and innocent Palestinians were murdered in cold blood. Prof. “Ytzhak”, the lecturer in Bar- llan University and the Military History Expert, has published his data and researches concerning more than ninety massacres perpetrated in Palestinian villages, among them are: Sa‘sa‘ village – destruction of 20 houses over their inhabitants and the murder of 60 persons; Hawsan village –slaughter of 12 men without any cause or resistance; Al- Dawayima village –murder and slaughter of 80 persons (Al-Khalil (Hebron) Mount); Ailbon village – shooting 12 youths under the eyes of a crowd of the surrendered inhabitants (in Al-Jalil) and another 17 youths from the Bedouins and the village inhabitants that were dispersed at different parts, it seems as if they were resisting; Majd Al-Kurum village – shooting 5 youths (in Al-Jalil); Ba‘nah and Deir Al-Asad villages – summoning the inhabitants then picking from them 4 youths, who were shot in front of everybody; Safsaf village – murder of 56 men after tying them and casting them into a well, rape of three women and a young girl 14 years old; Saliha village – killing 94 persons by knocking down their houses over them; Ayn Al-Zaytun village – murder of 32 persons then their watches were taken from their hands; Qisarya village – murder of whoever failed to escape; Al-Kabri village – the village was occupied and 7 youths were murdered and the rest of the inhabitants fled.

There is not the least doubt that the bloodbaths and massacres perpetrated by the Zionist organizations came within a programmed plan for expulsion. Shortly ago a document was published by the Israeli army intelligence agency in June 1948 that analyzes “The reasons behind the Arabs’ exit from Palestine”, which absolutely refutes the Zionist propaganda and states some of the reasons that were behind the Arabs’ exit from Palestine:

1-	The hostile Jewish acts directly targeting the villages, the Arab cities, and the downfall of the big villages and the main cities constitute 55% from the reasons that resulted in the exit.

2-	Operations carried by Jewish terrorist groups, like Etzel and Lehi, that were involved in terrorist acts in Yafa and Al-Jalil (Galilee), the city center and Al-Qods region and executed the “Deir-Yassin Massacre”. The influence they exercised constitute 15%.

3-	Evil Insinuations and Psychological warfare and their influence played 2%.

4-	The orders and warnings given to the inhabitants to evacuate the villages and desert them in order to enable the Arab forces to retrieve them. Its influence is 5%.

5-	General panic and distrust of the power of the Arab forces. Its influence is 11%.

Concerning the huge dislocation, expulsion and destruction project committed against the Palestinian villages during the Six Day War and after it, we must point to the fact that Al-Jalil and the northern region were afflicted with the lion’s share in this project, as the writer Charles Caiman emphasizes the following facts in his article, “After the Disaster – the Arabs in the Israeli State – 1948 – 1950”:
 
1.	Among 73 villages under the jurisdiction of Safad 68 villages were destroyed.
2.	Among 51 villages under the jurisdiction of Akka 21 villages were destroyed.
3.	Among 23 villages under the jurisdiction of Tiberias 20 villages were destroyed.
4.	Among 19 villages under the jurisdiction of Baysan 17 villages were destroyed.
5.	Among 40 villages under the jurisdiction of Haifa 32 villages were destroyed.
6.	Among 23 villages under the jurisdiction of Nazareth 4 villages were destroyed.

Accordingly, the final outcome is that 162 Arab villages (and three Arab cities) were destroyed from among 229 villages under the above-mentioned judicial authorities alone.


Israel resumed the expulsion policy of the Arab from their villages even after its establishment and the domination of Zionist organizations and their gangs over the Arab villages and communities. The Iqrit and Bir‘im case, which is still interacting within the lobbies of the Israeli Knesset, is a clear condemnation of the methods employed by the Israeli chiefs against the Arab inhabitants. It also embodies the depth of the Zionist– Israeli desire to ethnically cleanse the land from its Arab inhabitants. Facts show that the forced expulsion operations against the Palestinians continued even after signing the truce agreements in 1949 between “Israel” and the adjacent Arab countries. For the inhabitants of Al-Ghabisiyya were expelled in 1950, and it was proclaimed as a closed militarily Zone, and the same in Amqa, Kafr ‘Inan and Saffuriyya whose inhabitants were driven out in 1953. Also, the inhabitants of the two villages Kirad Al-Baqqara and Kirad Al-Ghannama in Hawla plain were expelled many times during 1948, 1951 and 1956. Arab An-Naqb were expelled and gathered in Sayaj region in 1957. In 1974, Israel expelled Arab Al Mafjar from their village near Khadirah and established on their lands a power plant. In 1981, and after concluding the Camp David Accord between Israel and the Egyptian regime, thousands of Arabs were expelled from “Tall Al-Malh” region in An-Naqb (Negev) to the city center: to Al-Ladd, Ar-Ramlah and Al-Muthalth to construct military airports instead of the evacuated airports in Sinai. In 1987, the Israeli government instituted a committee to examine the “unlicensed” building in the Arab Palestinian environment, known as Marcovitch committee, which recommended in 1989 that it was necessary to demolish 11000 houses owned by Arabs under the pretext of “unlicensed” building.

These houses are distributed over 100 Arab communities “unacknowledged” by the Israeli authorities, and these authorities aim at dislodging its inhabitants. In 1995, the Israeli minister of Construction and Housing issued his orders of evacuating – expelling
– the inhabitants of “Al-Hawashlah” village in An-Naqb and also Arab Al-Jahileen.” End of the article by the lawyer Wakim Wakim, Secretary of National Committee for the Defense of the Rights of the Uprooted in Israel.


The Zionists also resorted to enforce jural and civic procedures against the dislodged people and their villages; thus even after the stability of the military situations the authorities continued the adoption of all the practical jural measures – legislative and civic – to consolidate the actual state of their seizure of the evacuated Arab lands and villages, pushed to this course by the obsessive fear of the return of the uprooted Arabs to their villages. For this reason, the Israeli authorities enforced laws and regulations that indirectly dealt with the dislodged people and directly dealt with the evacuated lands and villages. It also activated the mandatory emergency systems, as the closure of zones
 
militarily. On the other side, the Israeli authorities carried out their civic plans and established hundreds of Jewish settlements on the Arab lands and consequently the acceleration of the process of destroying the Arab villages in a desperate attempt to wipe them out of history and from the minds of their children who resorted to the neighboring Arab villages.


The UN defines those refugees in its documents as follows: “Every person who had his ordinary house in Palestine for two years before the conflict of 1948 and because of it he lost his house and the means of his living and restored in 1948 to one of the countries where the UNRWA (United Nations Relief and Works Agency for the Palestinian refugees in the Far East) presents its services and is registered in the regions of its activities.” Over the years of the twentieth century, the Palestinian population was subjected to numerous major surges of dislodgment and collective uprooting, the foremost were in 1948-47 during the Zionist-Arab war, when approximately 800 000 persons were uprooted. In 1967, during the Israeli-Arab war (about 400000 persons), and in 1991 during the second Gulf war about 350000 persons. Moreover, the administrative measures and policies imposed on the Palestinians in the Palestinian territories occupied in 1948 and 1967 (as the expropriation of the lands, the destruction of the houses, confiscation of nationality rights, exile, in addition to the governmental policies and the armed conflicts in many of the dispersed Palestinian communities caused the dislodgment of thousands other Palestinians. For the majority of the Palestinian refugees are those who were uprooted from their homes in 1948 along with their grandchildren (more than five millions) and they nearly present one-third of the Palestinian population in its entirety.

If we added the refugees that were uprooted from their homes for the first time in 1967 and these dislodged refugees inside the “Green-Line” i.e., inside Israel, then nearly three- quarter of the Palestinian people were uprooted from their homes over the last half- century. Based on this, the Palestinian refugees are the biggest and oldest refugee groups in the world. Most of these refugees live in the occupied West Bank including Al-Qods (Jerusalem), and Gaza Strip about 100 miles away from their original homes and dwellings that are located at Israel, and they are forbidden to exercise their right of returning to them. The successive Israeli governments also oppose the return of the Palestinian refugees, for their desire to maintain and preserve Israel “as a Jewish State” with a landslide Jewish demography and a full Jewish mastery over the lands.

Since 1948 UN General Assembly has issued more than fifty resolutions that tackled “The Palestinian refugees problem”, the most important among them was resolution 194 issued in 11-12-1948, that was repeatedly indicated in the succeeding resolutions. This resolution says: “The refugees who wish to return to their country must be allowed to return, and to peacefully live with their neighbors on the nearest date possible. As for those who do not wish to return they must be compensated for their belongings and the destruction and wreckage that befell them, and this is according to the international law or the principles of justice, and responsible governments or authorities should be bound to do this.” On the basis of this resolution the International Conciliation Commission was instituted and was entrusted with facilitating the process of repatriation of refugees, safely settling them and paying them compensations.

Resolution 194 is considered the base for all the UN resolutions regarding the refugees. It is noteworthy that the UN acknowledgment of Israel as a nation is conditional upon
 
Israel’s fulfillment of this resolution. But Israel has learned not to respect any of the resolutions issued by the international organizations unless they agree with its own interests and greed. When talking about the disaster that befell Palestine (the Six Day War) and the planned and organized expulsion of more than 80 % from the Palestinians of the occupied territories in 1948, we are talking about the worst disaster and calamity the ever afflicted a population in the universe during the second half of the last century. For occupation and expulsion were the outcome of a hostile activity of ideological racism, but only few do care. To know the international resolutions regarding Palestine, which Israel never respected, the Palestinian National Information Center under the Palestinian National Authority gives the following table that illustrates the resolutions and their most important circumstances and dates:


The Most Important International Resolutions Concerning Palestine
Ser No	No of Resolution	Date of
Resolution	Reference	Subject of
Resolution
1.	
181 Term 2	
29/11/1947	
General Assembly	Division	of Palestine into two Arab and Jewish
States
2.	




42	




5/3/1948	




Security Council	Adjuration of all Governments and peoples, including those in Palestine and around it, to carry out all the possible measures to prevent or minimize the tense turmoil running	in
Palestine.
3.	

43	

1/4/1948	
Security Council	Call for arranging a truce between the Arab and Jewish Sects and
Ceasing violence.
4.	

44	

1/4/1948	

Security Council	Call	for	an exceptional General Assembly term to re-study the case of regime
in Palestine.
5.				Call	for	all	in
Palestine to stop military

 
				operations and violent, terrorist and sabotage
actions.
6.	
48	
23/4/1948	Security Council	Forming a truce-
committee	in Palestine
7.	


185	


26/4/1948	

General Assembly	Request		to Guardians Council to study the measures to safeguard	Al- Qods (Jerusalem)
and its population
8.	

187	

6/5/1948	

General Assembly	Recommending the	appointment of		a		special municipality delegate	in	Al-
Qods (Jerusalem)
9.	


189	


14/5/1948	

General Assembly	Appreciate Palestine Committee	work and Select “Conte Barnadot” as an international
mediator
10	
186	
14/5/1948	General Assembly	Appointment	of International
Mediator

11.	
212	
29/11/1948	
General Assembly	Founding a fund special for the Palestinian
Refugees

12.	




194	




11/12/1948	



General Assembly	Forming				a conciliation commission		to report	Jerusalem situation		in		a permanent international system.
Repatriation and compensation of refugees.

13.				The	resolution
states	the
asics.com	61

 
				formation of (UNRWA) United Nations      Relief
and			Works Agency	for	the Palestinian refugees		in	the
Far East.

14.	



106	



29/3/1955	


Security Council	Condemnation of the Israeli Attack on	Gaza
considering	that as a violation of cease-fire statements	and the commitments
of true agreement.

15.	

2253	

4/7/1967	

General Assembly	A call for Israel to cancel		the measures taken to alter the situation in	Al-Qods
(Jerusalem).

16.	


2254	


14/7/1967	

General Assembly	Conveying regret towards	the
measures Israel had taken to change	the situation   in   Al-
Qods (Jerusalem).

17.	

242	

22/11/1967	
Security Council	Resolving the principles of just and lasting peace in the Middle
East.

18.	


2443 (Term 23)	


19\12\1968	


General Assembly	Forming a special committee to investigate in the Israeli    practices
that	violate Human Rights in the        Occupied
Territories.

19.				Condemning the violation	of Human Rights in
the        Occupied


 
				Territories and calling Israel to give up its suppressing
practices.

20.	

267	

3\7\1969	

Security Council	Re-calling Israel to cancel all the measures which alter the situation in	Al-Qods
(Jerusalem).

21.	



271	



15\9\1969	



Security Council	Condemning Israel	for
desecrating Al Aqsa Mosque and calling Israel to cancel	all
measures, which may alter the situation   in   Al-
Qods (Jerusalem).

22.	


2672(Term25)A,B,C,D	


8\12\1970	


General Assembly	Recognition to Palestinian people the right of self- determination and re-call Israel to take immediate steps to repatriate
the displaced.

23.	




2851(Term26)	




20\12\1971	




General Assembly	Calling				Israel insistently					to cancel		all			the measures			neither to	annex			nor settle		in				the Occupied Territories			and asking the special committee					to
continue	its actions.

24.	




3210	




14\10\1974	



General Assembly	Inviting PLO, the representative of the Palestinian people to take part in the discussions of the
General Assembly


 
				Concerning Palestine problem in	its	general
sessions.

25.	

3237	

22\11\1974	
General Assembly	Granting     PLO
position		of observer at the UN	General Assembly.

26.	



298	



25\9\1971	


Security Council	Regret		for		the disregard of Israel to	the		UN resolutions relating		to			its measures				for
changing		the situation	in	Al-
Qods (Jerusalem).

27.	
3414(Term30)	
5\12\1975	General Assembly	Situation	in	the Middle East.

28.	
32\5	
28\10\1977	
General Assembly	Illegal Israeli measures in the Occupied
Territories.

29.	

32\20	

25\11\1977	
General Assembly	Condemning the continuation of Israeli occupation of      the      Arab
territories in 1967.

30.	

33\29	

7\12\1978	

General Assembly	Condemnation of occupying the Arab Territories and call for a comprehensive
settlement.

31.	

34\90 A,B,C	

12\12\1979	

General Assembly	Condemning the continuous Israeli violations of Human Rights in the Occupied
Territories.

32.	

34\136	

14\12\1979	

General Assembly	The Right of the Arab peoples in permanent sovereignty	over
their	lands	and

 
				natural resources.

33.	
446	
22\3\1979	
Security Council	Settlement on the Palestinian Territories	is
unlawful.

34.	


7\2 the seventh urgent exceptional Term	


29\7\1980	


General Assembly	Call Israel to start its		withdrawal before 15\11\1980 from all	the	Arab Territories Occupied	since
June 1967.

35.	



35\110	



5\12\1980	


General Assembly	Asserting the right of the Arab States and	peoples whose territories are under the Israeli occupation to fully dominate
their	natural resources.

36.	



35\207	



16\12\1980	



General Assembly	Condemning Insistently	Israeli Aggression		on Lebanon and the Palestinian People and	Re-asserting absolute objection against	Israeli Decision to annex
Jerusalem.

37.	




465	




1\3\1980	



Security Council	Calling Israel to dismantle			the existing settlements	and giving up planning and	building settlements in the Occupied Territories including Al-Qods
(Jerusalem).

38.	


476	


30\6\1980	

Security	Declaring        the
Nullification of the measures taken by Israel to
		
 
				alter the structure of	Al-Qods
(Jerusalem).

39.	

478	

20\8\1980	
Security Council	Stating	that	the principal		law regarding Jerusalem is not
recognized.

40.	


36\173	


17\12\1981	


General Assembly	The measures Israel has taken to exploit the natural man resources in the      Palestinian
and	Arab
territories are illegal.

41.	


4\7-E	


28\4\1982	


General Assembly	Condemning Israel	for	its
policy		in		the Occupied Territories	and urging	countries not to provide aid
to Israel.

42.	
37\86 A,B,C,D,E	
10\12\1982	General Assembly	Regarding Palestine
Problem.

43.	


39\17	


23\11\1984	

General Assembly	Re-confirming the Right	of
Palestinian people in	self-
Determination and
Independence.

44.	
39\136 A,B,C	
14\12\1984	General Assembly	The Situation In The Middle East

45.	
39\146	
1984	General Assembly	The Situation In The Middle East


This table that includes the UN resolutions regarding Palestine clearly shows the absolute defiance and disregard by which the Zionist occupying forces meet these resolutions and their persistence in assaulting the secure Palestinians on their lands and their sanctities. Resolution 2253 dated 4\7\67, resolution 267 dated 3\7\69, and also resolution 476 dated 30\7\1980, all these resolutions disclose Israel’s determination to alter the situation in Al-Qods (Jerusalem) and Judaizes it and changes its Islamic Arabic features into Jewish
 
to deceive the world in the future, namely during the present days we live, and make them believe that Al-Qods is Jewish and accordingly destroy Al-Masjid Al-Aqsa and build in its place the Temple, which is one of their religious fabricated myths.

In reply to these resolutions that Israel never respected, the UN issued new resolutions by which it condemned Israel’s defiance of orders and rebellion against international organizations and its persistence in changing the landmarks of Al-Qods; these condemning resolutions numbered: 2254 dated 14\7\67, 271 dated 15\9\69 and 298 dated 25\9\1971, which were regretfully restricted to Israel’s disregard of the UN resolutions. Also resolution 478 dated 20\8\1980 that declares a non-recognition of the main law regarding the changes that Israel carried in Al-Qods.

Not only that, but there are also other resolutions that condemn Israel’s violation of human rights and unjustified aggression; these resolutions numbered: 2546, 271, 2851, 32\20, 34\90 and 207\35. These resolutions range between condemnation for violating human rights which is an Israeli hobby, and condemnation of attacking the secure citizens or of the expansion of Israel by annexing the Palestinian territories and confiscating them. Also for desecrating Al-Aqsa Masjid the Muslim place of worship, which Jews have no right to enter it ever.

Quoting from the Palestinian National Information Center, the Palestinian refugees are mainly distributed over the border countries of their motherland, where the estimated number of the Palestinian people in 1998 was 7788 185 persons, 54% are living outside the Palestinian borders and cluster varyingly in other regions of the Arab world, but the majority among them live in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, in other words in the neighboring regions due to the displacements from which they suffered in the year of the Disaster 1948 and the recourse of many among them to the Arab countries neighboring Palestine.


1-	The Refugees in Jordan: the percentage of Palestinian refugees is (31.4%) from the total population of Jordan and more than (42%) from the total of all Palestinian refugees. The census of Palestinian refugees in Jordan is about one million refugees, 18% of them live in ten camps, the number of their inhabitants reached 280 000 as registered by UNRWA in Jordan. The number of refugees living in Jordan increased since the disaster, as their number reached 100 000 approximately by 1948; they are those who crossed Jordan River and lived in camps. After the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 1967 the new influx of displaced immigrants flowed in, whose number reached about 240 000.

2-	The Refugees in Syria: the percentage of Palestinian refugees in Syria represents (10.2%) from the total registered refugees, and (2.3%) from the total population of Syria. More than (30%) from the total of Palestinian refugees in Syria live in these camps. Al- Yarmok camp that shelters more than 100 000 Palestinians is not counted in the list of official camps under the UNRWA, in spite of the spread of its different services in it. The refugees in Syria belong to the northern regions in Palestine especially in Safad and Haifa, and constitute (62%) from the total refugees, but the rest came from Yafa, Tiberias, Akka and other cities. In 1967 more than 100 000 persons migrated from Golan Heights – among them Palestinian refugees – to other Syrian parts. Moreover, thousands of Lebanese people resorted to Syria during the civil war that tore Lebanon in 1982.
 
3-	The Refugees in Lebanon: some Palestinian refugees moved to Lebanon after the Disaster in 1948, and they constitute (10%) from the overall total of Palestinian refugees, and (10.5%) from the total Lebanese population. Now there are twelve Palestinian camps on the Lebanese lands and the refugees there suffer from many problems, the most important are: the weak infrastructure of the camps, overcrowdedness and unemployment. In Lebanon there is the highest percent of Palestinian refugees who live in extreme poverty and are registered in the program of straitened circumstances. Also, the refugees in Lebanon suffer from the absence of social and civil rights and the lack of the relief agency services in the domains of education, health, and social services. Also during the years that followed the civil war the UNRWA totally gave up offering the free educational insurance, which led to the emergence of some problems like school failure, the rise of illiteracy percentage which amounted to (48%) from the total camp population based on recent statistics, whereas the percent of university graduates sank to (4.2%).

In the end of discussing the Palestinian refugees problem we are to examine some of the details stated in the map of UNRWA operation zone. These details tackle the distribution of refugees registered with this agency, bearing the date 30 June 2001.

Region	In Camps	Outside Camps	Total
Jordan	287.951	1.351.767	1.639.718
Lebanon	214.728	168.245	382.973
Syria	109.466	282.185	391.651
West Bank	163.139	444.631	607.770
Gaza Strip	460.031	392.595	852.626
Regions Total	1.235.315	2.639.423	3.874.738

This table exhibits the dispersion of these refugees over different parts after one land gathered them in the past, namely Palestine. It also shows that the refugees outside the camps are twice those present inside, which means double suffering and miserable living conditions that day after day grow severer.

The Zionist terrorism is as old as its presence in the Middle East region and the greatest proof on this is the horrible bloodbaths and massacres which the Zionists have perpetrated and still perpetrate against the true landowners to force them to evacuate their land for the new Jewish incomers.
 
The resources that the Palestinian National Information Center has used in the documentation of the Palestinian History:

-	Dr. Haitham Al-Kilany: the Arab Islamic Palestinian wars – Palestinian encyclopedia, fifth volume, 1990.
-	Dr. Hindy Al-Bidary – the Palestinian lands between Zionist claims and historical facts – Cairo, the Arab League Printing House, 1988.
-	Arab	institute	for	practice	and statistical researches. The	demographic characteristics of the Palestinian people, Beirut, Anidâl publishing house, 1985.
-	Mustafa Ad-Dabagh, Our Country Palestine – first part, At-Tali‘ah publishing house, Beirut, 1965.
-	Araf Al-Araf, The Disaster, p. 952.
-	Bayan Nuwayhad Al-Hût, Palestine: the Problem and the People, Al-Istiqlal publishing house, 1991.
-	Al-Yas Shofany, compendium of Palestine History, Palestinian studies institute – 1998.
-	Dr. Abdul-Wahab Al-Kialy, compendium of Modern Palestine History – Beirut, Arab institute, 1975.
-	Asmaa Abdul-Hady Fa‘ur, Palestine and the Jewish claims, Al-Ummah publishing house, 1990.
-	Publications of the Palestinian studies institute\Lebanon defense ministry. Palestinian problem and Zionist danger – Beirut studies series, 1973.
